Pastor Brent McQuay: Foreign. Welcome back to another episode of
Pastor Brent McQuay: Between Sermons, where we are continuing the
Pastor Brent McQuay: conversation from Sunday. I'm your host, Brent,
Pastor Brent McQuay: and I get to be the lead
Pastor Brent McQuay: pastor here at Disciples Church. And we
Pastor Brent McQuay: are in a walk through the book
Pastor Brent McQuay: of Luke. Today. We're hanging out in
Pastor Brent McQuay: Luke chapter three. It's going to be
Pastor Brent McQuay: an awesome conversation, especially because it is.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's just the guys today. I don't
Pastor Brent McQuay: know, there's just something good about just
Pastor Brent McQuay: the guy.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Don't.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Don't tell your wife I said that.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Hopefully she doesn't bother watching this episode.
David Beasley: Yeah, I'll tell her to skip this
David Beasley: one.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You don't. You don't need this one,
Pastor Brent McQuay: Taisha. This one's not for you. This
Pastor Brent McQuay: is for the men.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Let's do it. Just.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Just make it more controversial. It's the
Pastor Brent McQuay: bro podcast, ladies.
David Beasley: Don't leave us here if you watch
David Beasley: it, please.
Pastor Brent McQuay: We're going to have a good time.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I think we're going to probably get
Pastor Brent McQuay: into some heavy theological discussions today. I
Pastor Brent McQuay: also promised to talk a little bit
Pastor Brent McQuay: about Iran, so we're going to have
Pastor Brent McQuay: a little bit of fun with that
Pastor Brent McQuay: as well. Fun might not be the
Pastor Brent McQuay: ugly word for that. I don't know
Pastor Brent McQuay: what I'm saying, people. So I'm going
Pastor Brent McQuay: to kick it over to our temporary
Pastor Brent McQuay: co host.
David Beasley: What's up, people?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Are you trying to take your wife's
Pastor Brent McQuay: job?
David Beasley: No, no, no.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Is this what's happening? You're filling in
Pastor Brent McQuay: your resume? You're like, hey, if you
Pastor Brent McQuay: ever wanted to.
David Beasley: No, I was just giving a responsibility.
David Beasley: I said, I got it, sweetheart. You
David Beasley: know, this is fun. This is fun.
David Beasley: We're going to have a good time.
David Beasley: So you got a different Beasley in
David Beasley: the seat, but. But we gonna have
David Beasley: fun. We were having a little conversation
David Beasley: before, so we gonna kind of pick
David Beasley: up where we left off. So. Yeah,
David Beasley: I'm excited.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: What were we talking about?
David Beasley: The Book of Luke, chapter three. So,
David Beasley: okay, we specifically, Specifically, we were referring
David Beasley: to something you brought up yesterday about
David Beasley: the fact that John highlights a lot
David Beasley: of things that the people need to
David Beasley: do.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Keep fruit.
David Beasley: Keep bearing fruit with repentance.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I was. Yeah, sorry, go ahead.
David Beasley: Yeah, yeah, yeah, you were talking about
David Beasley: that and just highlighting how, you know,
David Beasley: the. You know, how the concept of
David Beasley: that can come off as every now
David Beasley: and then it can look a little
David Beasley: works based, even though that's not the
David Beasley: purpose. So I'm gonna let you elaborate
David Beasley: on what you meant by that.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah, I didn't have time to talk
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to Pastor Brent about it to get
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: a firm answer, but the struggle I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: was Having was John is. He's preaching
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to both Jews and Gentiles. But it
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: seems like the message can be works
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: based or merit based because he goes
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: a lot into repent, which is turning
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: from your sins and turning towards God,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: but he really digs into what is
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the fruit of that. Showing fruits of
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: repentance in your life, which could seem
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: like you are doing works in order
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to receive salvation. And, and I, I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: didn't want that to come across in
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the message, you know, because we receive
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: salvation through Jesus Christ and because we
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: have salvation, we do works. And so
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I was trying to be cautious in
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: how I taught that and, and how
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I wrote it. And I was like,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: man, I should have asked Pastor Brent
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: exactly how to frame this or what
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: his thoughts were. And then post or
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: pre show, you gave a good answer.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: John was teaching, was preaching to Jews
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: who. What?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, so, so the best way to
Pastor Brent McQuay: look at this is this is, this
Pastor Brent McQuay: is pre crucifixion resurrection.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so even, even post crucifixion resurrection,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like repent and be baptized is still
Pastor Brent McQuay: the instruction.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, it's still the process. The, the
Pastor Brent McQuay: Jewish people didn't understand that it wasn't
Pastor Brent McQuay: the baptism and the works that merited
Pastor Brent McQuay: your salvation, it's the work of Christ.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And that's actually the. Paul goes in
Pastor Brent McQuay: to talk about that, I think in
Pastor Brent McQuay: Hebrews and a couple other places that
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's actually like, Abraham was saved through,
Pastor Brent McQuay: through faith in Jesus.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Even though he didn't really understand that's
Pastor Brent McQuay: what he was waiting for, it was
Pastor Brent McQuay: still. It wasn't Abraham's works that were
Pastor Brent McQuay: saving him, it was still Jesus.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right, right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That was saving him. And so, yeah,
Pastor Brent McQuay: this, this whole idea of like a
Pastor Brent McQuay: workspace salvation, it's almost like it's putting
Pastor Brent McQuay: the cart before the horse. It's like
Pastor Brent McQuay: we don't work into our salvation, we
Pastor Brent McQuay: work out of our salvation. Right. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: so like, the mindset of I have
Pastor Brent McQuay: to do these things in order to
Pastor Brent McQuay: be saved would be wrong. Right, Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, scripturally, that's just not how it
Pastor Brent McQuay: works. Like, you, no matter how good
Pastor Brent McQuay: you try and be, you're never going
Pastor Brent McQuay: to be good enough. Like, if it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: based on your works, we have all
Pastor Brent McQuay: failed.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah. Because it gives a sense that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: John's coming out of the woods saying,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: change your life and do all this
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: good stuff so you can inherit the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: kingdom of God. And it's like, all
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: right, that's, that's, that's good. But today,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: you know, post Christ, we, we got
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: it. It should be the Other way
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: around, not saying that what he was
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: teaching wasn't good. I mean, we all.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And I even said this at the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: end of my application that we all
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: need to print repent and turn from
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: our sins and turn towards God.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Everything that he was saying is still
Pastor Brent McQuay: applicable in the book of Acts.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And beyond. So post resurrection, it's still
Pastor Brent McQuay: repent, be baptized, bear fruit. Right, Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But it's. All of that is we're
Pastor Brent McQuay: doing that in response to the salvation
Pastor Brent McQuay: we've received through faith in Christ. Right,
Pastor Brent McQuay: right. And so it's, it's part of
Pastor Brent McQuay: that whole. It's almost like, I think
Pastor Brent McQuay: John and James would have had a
Pastor Brent McQuay: really great time hanging out together because
Pastor Brent McQuay: they'd be like, yeah, man, bear fruit.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, faith without works is dead. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: John would be like, exactly, like, right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So, like, there should be fruit of
Pastor Brent McQuay: your salvation. Like, we were just kind
Pastor Brent McQuay: of talking. It was like, man, it's.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's really hard for me to look
Pastor Brent McQuay: at somebody that says, well, I prayed
Pastor Brent McQuay: the prayer, but absolutely nothing in my
Pastor Brent McQuay: life changed after I prayed the prayer.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, all of a sudden I'm like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: man, but. But the prayer is to
Pastor Brent McQuay: confess Jesus as Lord. Like, that goes
Pastor Brent McQuay: beyond just words. Like, it's not just
Pastor Brent McQuay: saying Jesus, your Lord, but I'm still
Pastor Brent McQuay: going to live as if you're not.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: There's no transformation of the heart, of
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the person, of your character, of your
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: behavior, to be more like Christ. And
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that's the journey that we go on.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Because being saved in the Greek is
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: continuous. Like, you're not saved in a
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: moment. You're saved continuously in your life.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That's where the way we are together,
Pastor Brent McQuay: we have been saved. We are being
Pastor Brent McQuay: saved. We will be saved.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right, right, right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Because it's, it's this ongoing work of
Pastor Brent McQuay: the Holy Spirit in our lives. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's also, there's a moment when Jesus
Pastor Brent McQuay: returns and our salvation is, is finalized.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But we're still in that process of
Pastor Brent McQuay: salvation. And, And I think sometimes maybe
Pastor Brent McQuay: as preachers, we're the bad guy in
Pastor Brent McQuay: the, the conversation. Like, because we get
Pastor Brent McQuay: up, we present the gospel and we
Pastor Brent McQuay: instruct people to pray prayer, and we
Pastor Brent McQuay: celebrate that moment. And I think sometimes
Pastor Brent McQuay: maybe we do it in a way
Pastor Brent McQuay: that, that makes it seem like that's
Pastor Brent McQuay: the end. And really it's. It's not,
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's. And we do try and say
Pastor Brent McQuay: this, like it's the starting point. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: right.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: We talk.
Pastor Brent McQuay: There's a whole journey of walking with
Pastor Brent McQuay: Christ and what that looks like. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: you're, you're bearing the Fruit of your
Pastor Brent McQuay: salvation in the way you're operating, the
Pastor Brent McQuay: way you talk to people, the, the
Pastor Brent McQuay: things you do and the things you
Pastor Brent McQuay: don't do. And in chapter four, we're
Pastor Brent McQuay: going to get into Jesus's temptation, and
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's. We've got to fight temptation as
Pastor Brent McQuay: well. Like, and, and it's not to
Pastor Brent McQuay: say that you're going to lose your
Pastor Brent McQuay: salvation if you sin one time. But,
Pastor Brent McQuay: man, I struggle with people that are
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, man, I prayed the prayer, so
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm good to go. But there's nothing
Pastor Brent McQuay: in their life that communicates Jesus is
Pastor Brent McQuay: king.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right. There's no battle.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm like, man, I don't know.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Bad behavior and bad character. Right. You're
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: just allowing yourself to sin and you're
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: okay with it. So there's no, there's.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Your heart is not changing to adopt
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the character of Christ. You're not listening
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to the Holy Spirit as he directs
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: your life in a path.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, have you ever met a Christian
Pastor Brent McQuay: that, like, they've been saved for like
Pastor Brent McQuay: 30 years, but they're still doing the
Pastor Brent McQuay: same things they did 30 years ago?
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's like, how much progress have you
Pastor Brent McQuay: made? Like, in this journey? Like, at
Pastor Brent McQuay: least baby steps, like something.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: So once saved, not always saved.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I. So I actually, like, I'm. I'm
Pastor Brent McQuay: in a. Yeah.
David Beasley: Head first.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I see.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Man, there are so many, like, controversial
Pastor Brent McQuay: topics where I'm like, I just pick
Pastor Brent McQuay: the middle.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Sure.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So, like, I'm totally good with one
Pastor Brent McQuay: saved, always saved, and I'm totally good
Pastor Brent McQuay: with not one saved, always saved in
Pastor Brent McQuay: this sense. One saved, always saved in
Pastor Brent McQuay: the sense of Jesus's work is enough.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So, like, his. His part in this
Pastor Brent McQuay: process never fails. Can someone choose to
Pastor Brent McQuay: walk away from that salvation? I would
Pastor Brent McQuay: say yes. So. So the strongest proponents
Pastor Brent McQuay: of one saved, always saved would actually
Pastor Brent McQuay: argue that either A, you could never
Pastor Brent McQuay: walk away, or B, if you do
Pastor Brent McQuay: walk away, you were never really saved
Pastor Brent McQuay: to begin with. So my approach to
Pastor Brent McQuay: that would be, yeah, maybe, maybe that's
Pastor Brent McQuay: accurate to say you were never really
Pastor Brent McQuay: saved. But I think that sometimes it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: hard for us to judge on this
Pastor Brent McQuay: side of eternity. Like, I think that,
Pastor Brent McQuay: yeah, that's true. Once, once Jesus stands
Pastor Brent McQuay: there and he separates the sheep from
Pastor Brent McQuay: the goats, like, then you're going to
Pastor Brent McQuay: go, oh, oh, right, man. Okay, then.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And I mean, he even says, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you cast out demons in my name.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You did all these things in my.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: But I never knew you. Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, you're using my name. You prayed
Pastor Brent McQuay: a prayer, but you didn't have relationship
Pastor Brent McQuay: with me. Like, we weren't in this
Pastor Brent McQuay: together. And so, yeah, so it's. It's
Pastor Brent McQuay: hard for me to, to fully agree
Pastor Brent McQuay: with either camp when. When it's like
Pastor Brent McQuay: the extreme version of those two camps.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: If that makes sense. Like, because. Because
Pastor Brent McQuay: there's some guys that are like, man,
Pastor Brent McQuay: if, if you, you know, jaywalk, you're
Pastor Brent McQuay: breaking the law, you get hit by
Pastor Brent McQuay: a car, you didn't repent of that
Pastor Brent McQuay: sin, you're going to hell. And I'm
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, that's just ridiculous. And like, I
Pastor Brent McQuay: know that the people that believe that
Pastor Brent McQuay: are minority, but you sometimes will see
Pastor Brent McQuay: this, like in the Catholic Church with
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, the. What do they call it?
David Beasley: The.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Is it the venerable sins? They have
Pastor Brent McQuay: a phrase for it, but
David Beasley: some are worse than others.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, there's some sins that are worse
Pastor Brent McQuay: than others. And if you can. If
Pastor Brent McQuay: you commit one of those worse sins
Pastor Brent McQuay: without repentance, there's no salvation for you
Pastor Brent McQuay: at that moment. And I'm like, man,
Pastor Brent McQuay: that. That doesn't really line up with
Pastor Brent McQuay: Scripture. Like, so are you saying that
Pastor Brent McQuay: if, if David had died right after
Pastor Brent McQuay: the Bathsheba moment, like, King David would
Pastor Brent McQuay: have gone to hell.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, I got a hard time believing
Pastor Brent McQuay: that. Like, I mean, he still had
Pastor Brent McQuay: a chance to repent.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: You would have to live a perfect
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: life.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Exactly. And none of us can.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: None of us will.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And the Bible's clear, all have sinned,
Pastor Brent McQuay: fall short of the glory of God.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Even Paul talks about how, like, he's
Pastor Brent McQuay: not even perfect.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And you're like, man, if anybody had
Pastor Brent McQuay: gotten this thing right, it's probably the
Pastor Brent McQuay: guy that wrote a bunch of the
Pastor Brent McQuay: New Testament. Like, he's the guy giving
Pastor Brent McQuay: us the instructions on how to follow
Pastor Brent McQuay: Jesus. But. Yeah, so I don't know.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And, and maybe some people call me
Pastor Brent McQuay: soft for kind of picking the, the
Pastor Brent McQuay: middle road on a lot of these
Pastor Brent McQuay: controversial topics, but I don't know. I.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I think I've heard enough arguments on
Pastor Brent McQuay: both sides to say, hey, there's some
Pastor Brent McQuay: validity to what you're saying. I think
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's just when you take any of
Pastor Brent McQuay: those opinions to the extreme level, you
Pastor Brent McQuay: lose out on we're not
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: going to be perfect all the time,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: but we do need the efforts of
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: righteousness. We need the efforts of being
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: sanctified by the Holy Spirit and moving
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: towards mirroring Christ.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I mean, how many, how many Bible
Pastor Brent McQuay: verses are in there about bearing fruit?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And that if you don't bear fruit,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I mean, Jesus repeatedly, like, it's not
Pastor Brent McQuay: just John starts the conversation, right? John's
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, the ax is already laid at
Pastor Brent McQuay: the Root.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yes.
Pastor Brent McQuay: The fire's already blazing like it's. But
Pastor Brent McQuay: Jesus comes along a little bit later
Pastor Brent McQuay: and he's like, yeah, if you don't
Pastor Brent McQuay: bear fruit, I'm Cut you off, throw
Pastor Brent McQuay: you in the lake of fire. Oh,
Pastor Brent McQuay: so fruit's actually really important.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah.
David Beasley: I think the controversy that comes along
David Beasley: with fruit bearing is the fact that
David Beasley: we tend to look at individuals and
David Beasley: expect them to bear a certain amount.
David Beasley: So if a certain amount is not
David Beasley: on display, according to our timeline and
David Beasley: according to our preferences, then we can
David Beasley: question whether or not it's genuine salvation.
David Beasley: Present scripture says 30, 60, 100 fold.
David Beasley: So that's a measurement. Everything is not
David Beasley: the same. Fruit is not bear at
David Beasley: the same pace, the same amount, same
David Beasley: quantity. So we got to be careful
David Beasley: when we look at that. It comes
David Beasley: down to a matter of the heart
David Beasley: a lot of times. So people use
David Beasley: that, too, in a controversial way.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And the Bible even talks about fruit
Pastor Brent McQuay: in a lot of different ways. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you look at the fruit of the
Pastor Brent McQuay: spirit, love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness,
Pastor Brent McQuay: gentle self control, all that stuff. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you can look at that and be
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, okay, well, that guy has, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: no self control. But they are super
Pastor Brent McQuay: loving. Like, they've developed a ton of
Pastor Brent McQuay: fruit in this love and joy space.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But, man, their self control. And so
Pastor Brent McQuay: would you say, well, because they don't
Pastor Brent McQuay: have self control, they're not producing enough.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right, right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But I've also met a bunch of
Pastor Brent McQuay: people that, man, they got tons of
Pastor Brent McQuay: self control. Like, they're the most, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: militant with self control.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But, man, you get in a conversation
Pastor Brent McQuay: with them and it's like, man, you
Pastor Brent McQuay: got no love. Like, you were developing
Pastor Brent McQuay: no love in your life. Like, the
Pastor Brent McQuay: way you talk to your friends, your
Pastor Brent McQuay: co workers, your. Your wife, like, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: what are you doing, man? Like, you
Pastor Brent McQuay: need to develop some fruit in this
Pastor Brent McQuay: area.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And John, he explains fruit by identifying
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: certain occupations and what they need to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: do in their. In their occup. Soldier.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah. And. And then so basically he's
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: saying, wherever you are in your life,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: this is the kind of fruit that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: you need to have, you need to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: develop. It's not one type of fruit
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that's a standard for all. But each
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: person has their own way of showing
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: fruit out of their lives based on
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: their behavior, based on the. The discipline
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: of work that they're in, their family
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: structure, their relationships. So the things that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: we do, the things that we, you
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: know, that. That occupy our life, we
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: need to show fruit. Fruit in that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: area. Yeah.
David Beasley: Amen. That leads to my next subject,
David Beasley: which is something you actually Talked about
David Beasley: yesterday, of course, bearing fruit with repentance.
David Beasley: Okay. He coupled the two. Seems like
David Beasley: he's saying repentance leads to fruit. True
David Beasley: repentance will produce genuine fruit. That's obvious.
David Beasley: So my question is, why do you
David Beasley: believe repentance is so essential in the
David Beasley: eyes of God? And why is it
David Beasley: not talked about or practiced as much
David Beasley: today like it used to be?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: So, yeah, I think it's probably talked
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: about a good amount, but the word
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: repentance is probably not used. And the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: reason why it's so important to bearing
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: fruit is because repenting is not just
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: saying, I'm sorry, you know, it's not
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: just like, you know, I apologize for
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: what I did, Let me move on
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: my life. Repentance is actually turning away
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: from that behavior and turning towards behavior
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that pleases God, turning towards being more
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: like Christ. And the. The journey or
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the effort to turn away and be
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: more like Christ or turn towards God
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: is where fruit comes out of. And
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: so that. That. That practice that, you
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: know, going through your daily life making
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: sure that you are a disciple of
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Christ, making sure that you mirror his
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: character that will produce fruit. And so
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I think a lot of times we
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: think repentance is, I'm sorry for what
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I did. And, and therefore there's. There's
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: like, how do I attach fruit to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that? Okay, I'm. I'm sorry. You know,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I have remorse, but there's no fruit
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: attached to it. But true repentance is
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: turning away and having an effort to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: go somewhere, to go into a different
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: direction. And out of that journey comes
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the fruit.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, I love. I love that picture
Pastor Brent McQuay: of changing directions because it's like, okay,
Pastor Brent McQuay: so sin is taking me down a
Pastor Brent McQuay: path. So repentance is. Is not just
Pastor Brent McQuay: saying, I'm sorry for being on this
Pastor Brent McQuay: path. It's. I'm getting off of the
Pastor Brent McQuay: path. Right? So if I'm walking, if.
Pastor Brent McQuay: If I'm a tax collector, sorry to
Pastor Brent McQuay: throw the financial professionals under the bus.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Financial professionals are not bad guys, I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: promise.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I don't know. Have you read your
Pastor Brent McQuay: Bible? I'm a tax collector. I've been
Pastor Brent McQuay: taking advantage of the people. I've been
Pastor Brent McQuay: pocketing a lot of money. I've been
Pastor Brent McQuay: doing some. Some bad stuff. And I
Pastor Brent McQuay: say, oh, man, I am so sorry
Pastor Brent McQuay: for doing that. And then I go
Pastor Brent McQuay: to the next house and I do
Pastor Brent McQuay: the same thing again, and I'm like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: oh, man, I'm so sorry for taking
Pastor Brent McQuay: advantage of that last person. Then go
Pastor Brent McQuay: to the next house and I do
Pastor Brent McQuay: it again.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, you're still Walking the same path.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You're just. You're remorseful, but you're not
Pastor Brent McQuay: repentant.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And. And it's not until there's actually
Pastor Brent McQuay: a change in direction, a change in
Pastor Brent McQuay: behavior, saying, okay, I'm actually going to
Pastor Brent McQuay: go back to that first house and
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm going to return their money.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah, Zacchaeus, that's.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That's fruit. Like, Zacchaeus absolutely showed the
Pastor Brent McQuay: fruit of his repentance. He said, I
Pastor Brent McQuay: am sorry for doing this. Here's what
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm gonna do. I'm gonna repay everything.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And what was it, like an extra,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: like four times or something?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, it was something crazy. It was
Pastor Brent McQuay: like fourfold.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I think he had a lot of
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: money that he stole from.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And here's the thing.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I'm.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm thinking every time I read that,
Pastor Brent McQuay: though, this is just my dumb brain.
Pastor Brent McQuay: If he pays everybody back four times,
Pastor Brent McQuay: where did he get the extra?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: It's a. Yeah, the people at the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: bottom don't get their money back.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, who's. Who's missing out on that
Pastor Brent McQuay: or what kind of investment have that?
Pastor Brent McQuay: He's like, he's.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: He's making bank on rob to pay
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: these people back.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I. I've never understood how he's actually
Pastor Brent McQuay: going to do the thing that he
Pastor Brent McQuay: says. And maybe he can't actually do
Pastor Brent McQuay: what he says.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: It could have came out of his
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: wages. Maybe. You know, maybe just like,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I'm going to take a vow of
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: poverty and follow Christ emergency.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, I didn't. I never thought about
Pastor Brent McQuay: that.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: But yeah, that could absolutely be.
Pastor Brent McQuay: If he was getting paid enough, he
Pastor Brent McQuay: could have. Depends on how much he
Pastor Brent McQuay: was taking and how much he's paid.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But yeah, I guess that's plausible.
David Beasley: He dipped into his 401. Okay.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Is that what he did?
Pastor Brent McQuay: He sold some Tesla stock.
David Beasley: Some stock. He said, I got to
David Beasley: make it. No, I was going to
David Beasley: mention Zakaeus too. Yes. That displayed full
David Beasley: repentance. Because another word or another definition
David Beasley: is to change your mind when it
David Beasley: comes to repentance. You change your mind.
David Beasley: Mind connected to the heart, actions follow.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah.
David Beasley: And that's exactly what happened to Zakiyah.
David Beasley: It's a good, positive example of a
David Beasley: financial professional.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And a great example of that change
Pastor Brent McQuay: of mind is when you're doing something
Pastor Brent McQuay: that you don't even recognize or believe
Pastor Brent McQuay: is sin. And then the holy spirit
Pastor Brent McQuay: or scripture or a believer comes and
Pastor Brent McQuay: confronts you with, hey, this behavior is
Pastor Brent McQuay: sin. Like, you actually have to have
Pastor Brent McQuay: a change of mind. Like, yeah, you
Pastor Brent McQuay: could either try and double down. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: I've seen people do this before where
Pastor Brent McQuay: they're like, but it ain't that bad.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It ain't really. And it's like, okay,
Pastor Brent McQuay: there's no real repentance there because you.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You didn't change your mind about that
Pastor Brent McQuay: thing being sin.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And that's why discipleship is so important,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: because I mentioned it in the sermon.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Like, Carlton needs someone to come alongside
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: me. Yeah. And to confront me about
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: my sin, because I could be living
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: my life thinking that it's okay or
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: ignoring the voice of the Holy Spirit,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: but I need a brother to come
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: alongside me and say, hey, Carlson, let
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: me help you walk this out. Or
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: let me help you. Let's help reveal
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: this thing that you're dealing with, this
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: struggle that you have, this vice that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: you have that's in you.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, that's. That's how we teach disciple
Pastor Brent McQuay: making.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, right. It's. It's my. My lovely
Pastor Brent McQuay: M Tech. That is so, so sad
Pastor Brent McQuay: that that's as creative as I can
Pastor Brent McQuay: get. Like, that's the. That's the most
Pastor Brent McQuay: creative.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Better than the other one.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm just taking the first letter of
Pastor Brent McQuay: everything.
David Beasley: That sounds like a master's program.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Well, you mentioned mtac. What's. Yeah, so.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So model, teach, encourage, correct, challenge. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: that's, that's how you're discipling in a
Pastor Brent McQuay: one on one relationship. But, like, a
Pastor Brent McQuay: huge part of that is the correction
Pastor Brent McQuay: piece. Like, I even we tied into
Pastor Brent McQuay: Philippians chapter four, where Paul talks about,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you know, what I. What you have
Pastor Brent McQuay: learned from me and seen in me
Pastor Brent McQuay: put into practice. Well, like, I learned
Pastor Brent McQuay: best when somebody actually comes in and
Pastor Brent McQuay: says, hey, you did that wrong. Here's
Pastor Brent McQuay: the right way to do it. Right?
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so, like, that's what we're trying
Pastor Brent McQuay: to do with the person we're discipling.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, they, they may have been telling
Pastor Brent McQuay: you about a conversation they had with
Pastor Brent McQuay: their wife last night. And you get
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, halfway through that conversation, you're like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: man, you were actually, like, that was
Pastor Brent McQuay: wrong the way you spoke to your
Pastor Brent McQuay: wife. Like, that shows some pride, some
Pastor Brent McQuay: arrogance. You're not honoring her. You're not
Pastor Brent McQuay: loving her. Like, man, we need to
Pastor Brent McQuay: work on that. We need to correct
Pastor Brent McQuay: that. And that conversation might have started
Pastor Brent McQuay: with, man, you just don't understand how
Pastor Brent McQuay: bad my wife is. And, you know
Pastor Brent McQuay: all the trouble that she's given me.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And then in that conversation, it's like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: man, you're pointing a lot of fingers
Pastor Brent McQuay: at her, but let's redirect that attention.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Hey, man, here's some things that you
Pastor Brent McQuay: need to correct, and that's Discipleship, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: that's helping each other grow.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: That's why I like when John called
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: them a brood of vipers. Like, he
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: was so harsh with it, but he
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: wanted to confront them and the sins
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that, you know, they were in. Like,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: he wasn't holding any punches. He was
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: like, he brood of vipers. And I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: took that. I was like, okay, sometimes
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: we need to be harshly confronted with
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the sins that we're dealing with, and
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: we need to be vulnerable to share
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that with somebody that we trust in
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: discipleship. Yeah.
David Beasley: Amen.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Which insult do you like better, Brood
Pastor Brent McQuay: of vipers or whitewashed tombs? Oh, no,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I've always. Like, brood of vipers is
Pastor Brent McQuay: great, but whitewashed tombs, there's a. There's
Pastor Brent McQuay: a gut punch to that one. It's
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, you look pretty on the outside.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You're dead on the inside.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Dead on the inside. I like brood
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: of vipers because what I came up
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: with is that vipers hold. Hold their
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: venom inside.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: The poison that they have is inside
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: of them.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That's pretty good.
David Beasley: They were both aimed at two different
David Beasley: audiences, too, which I don't know if
David Beasley: there's. I'm sure there's significance. Some significance
David Beasley: there as it pertains to the purpose.
David Beasley: It was used. One was used by
David Beasley: Jesus. One were used. One was used
David Beasley: by John the Baptist. I'd rather be
David Beasley: insulted by John the Baptist. If Jesus
David Beasley: is so true. I'm good. He looked
David Beasley: at the religious leaders, say,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: you are a white one that doesn't
Pastor Brent McQuay: return you to repentance.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Quick.
David Beasley: Yeah, I'd rather. Yeah. John. Okay. His
David Beasley: cousin.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Okay. But Jesus, he was talking to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: people who were supposed to have it
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: down, who supposed to have.
David Beasley: Supposed to have it down, and they
David Beasley: didn't. Y.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: That's tough. That's probably worse than brutal
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: vipers.
David Beasley: That's tough.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah. I was talking to lay people.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Jews, Gentiles, Romans was coming. Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Which there's. I'm sure there's some Pharisees
Pastor Brent McQuay: in the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: mix, but you think some Pharisees got
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: baptized?
Pastor Brent McQuay: I think they came out to see.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I think they came out to watch.
David Beasley: Yeah. You know, publicly. They were scared,
David Beasley: but I know that
Pastor Brent McQuay: they would get baptized with him. But,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I mean, they believed in baptism for
Pastor Brent McQuay: repentance.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It was a Jewish practice, so, like.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But I. I think you got somebody
Pastor Brent McQuay: out in the wilderness preaching a message.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You got crowds coming. I think that
Pastor Brent McQuay: even just the jealousy of the Pharisees
Pastor Brent McQuay: that we see all throughout scripture, I
Pastor Brent McQuay: think they would have. They would have
Pastor Brent McQuay: gone to check it
David Beasley: out, because anybody else getting Attention as
David Beasley: a spiritual authority would have drawn their
David Beasley: attention. It's threatening.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah. Opposite of how they were practicing
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the faith, right? Very opposite. First you
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: get John coming out of the wilderness.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Bee stings.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Bee stings. Camel hair. Eating grasshoppers.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I laughed when you said it.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Nobody else did, though. Yeah. And first
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: you get John, who looks different than
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: a religious. A traditional religious leader than
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: a rabbi. And then you got Jesus
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: coming for a longer period of time
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: who doesn't look like a traditional Jewish
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: rabbi. And it's like they were probably
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: like, what is going on here? Like,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: this is anarchy. Like, this is confusing.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: They probably were looking for Messiah because
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: of these two people who came out,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: you know, teaching and preaching different than
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: what they're used to. They're probably like,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the Messiah's coming soon because John and
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Jesus, they've lost their minds, ain't it?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Well, there was a ton of messiahs
Pastor Brent McQuay: in that time frame. Mostly just because
Pastor Brent McQuay: the Roman occupation was so severe that
Pastor Brent McQuay: it was. We've never experienced this before.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, this has to be like. I
Pastor Brent McQuay: mean, that. And they went through, you
Pastor Brent McQuay: know, the Assyrians, the Babylonians went through
Pastor Brent McQuay: a lot of stuff.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Babylon was pretty bad.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But the Roman. The. The difference was
Pastor Brent McQuay: with Babylon and Syria, they conquered and
Pastor Brent McQuay: left. Romans conquered and stayed.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Right. So, like the Jerusalem, the temple
Pastor Brent McQuay: being destroyed by the Babylonians or by
Pastor Brent McQuay: the Assyrians. I always mix up time,
Pastor Brent McQuay: timeline.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: They even allowed them to go back.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That was devastating. But, like, they brought
Pastor Brent McQuay: them away 60
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: years, assimilated them, got information from them.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Like, they took all the academic minds.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Of the children of Israel, you know,
Pastor Brent McQuay: and then they send them back. They
Pastor Brent McQuay: send them back, like, without, like, chaperone.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, it was like, hey, send us
Pastor Brent McQuay: money. Like, pay your taxes to us,
Pastor Brent McQuay: or, like, just do your thing. Rome
Pastor Brent McQuay: was occupying force. Like, it was like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you know, it's the difference between somebody,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, comes and drags you out of
Pastor Brent McQuay: your home for a few years and
Pastor Brent McQuay: then you get to go back to
Pastor Brent McQuay: your home. You're gonna feel differently than
Pastor Brent McQuay: the guy that just comes and now
Pastor Brent McQuay: he's living in your house.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And he's lived in your house for
Pastor Brent McQuay: hundreds of years.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And you're like this. What is going
Pastor Brent McQuay: on here?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah. Yeah.
David Beasley: Wow. Sorry. Deep and profound. I'm David.
David Beasley: Oh, I'm sorry.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I just remembered.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: You remember he was David.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah. No, when you. When you had
Pastor Brent McQuay: asked, like, what we were talking about
Pastor Brent McQuay: earlier with the. Sorry, we're going to
Pastor Brent McQuay: totally jump back to the first topic.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah. Because I was trying to. Trying
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to process what we were talking about.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah. No. So the. The first topic
Pastor Brent McQuay: about the whole workspace, Salvation. I brought
Pastor Brent McQuay: up the. The idea of, like, when
Pastor Brent McQuay: you love your wife.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yes.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You do things because you love your
Pastor Brent McQuay: wife.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And if you're in a healthy relationship,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you're not doing those things to try
Pastor Brent McQuay: and force your wife to love you
Pastor Brent McQuay: back or to do things for you.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You're simply doing it because it's you.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You love this person. And so you're
Pastor Brent McQuay: going to sacrifice for them. You're going
Pastor Brent McQuay: to work hard for them. You're going
Pastor Brent McQuay: to do the things that bring them
Pastor Brent McQuay: joy. You're not going to do the
Pastor Brent McQuay: things that make them sad. Like. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: if I really love my wife, I'm
Pastor Brent McQuay: not going to have an affair. Like.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm not going to cheat. And it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: not because, you know, an affair is
Pastor Brent McQuay: bad just on its own.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's not because you're damaging to the
Pastor Brent McQuay: relationship.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Divorce is because you love your wife.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Right. And so if. If you're only
Pastor Brent McQuay: doing the things in order to protect
Pastor Brent McQuay: the. The marriage, but not out of
Pastor Brent McQuay: love, like, you're now in an unhealthy
Pastor Brent McQuay: relationship, and now you're doing things just
Pastor Brent McQuay: because you don't want to be alone.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, you're like, well, if I cheat
Pastor Brent McQuay: on my wife, she's going to divorce
Pastor Brent McQuay: me, and then I'm gonna be all
Pastor Brent McQuay: by myself versus if I have an
Pastor Brent McQuay: affair, I've hurt my wife, damaged this
Pastor Brent McQuay: relationship. The trust that we had, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: the heartbreak that she's going to go
Pastor Brent McQuay: through, the pain.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, I can't imagine doing that to
Pastor Brent McQuay: her. Right. And so, like, a lot
Pastor Brent McQuay: of. A lot of. For a lot
Pastor Brent McQuay: of things. I think we look at
Pastor Brent McQuay: our relationship with Jesus kind of in
Pastor Brent McQuay: the same way, where it's like, I'm
Pastor Brent McQuay: doing these things not even because I
Pastor Brent McQuay: like doing them or because I want
Pastor Brent McQuay: to do them or because I'm afraid
Pastor Brent McQuay: if I don't do them, he's going
Pastor Brent McQuay: to be mad at me. No, I'm
Pastor Brent McQuay: doing these things because I want to
Pastor Brent McQuay: honor him and I love him, and
Pastor Brent McQuay: I want to make sure that I'm
Pastor Brent McQuay: not doing the things that would grieve
Pastor Brent McQuay: him. Like, I want to make sure
Pastor Brent McQuay: that our relationship is healthy.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And that's a good point, too. I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: kind of ended my sermon with the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: love of God and how he was
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: pleased with Jesus before he did anything
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: and how he's pleased with us and
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: loves us before we do anything while
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: we're still in sin. He loves us.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Because John, like Luke, chapter three, starts
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: with a lot of fire, unquenchable fire.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And so it's almost like, okay, we're
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: getting scared out of hell to love
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: God or to righteous living. But I.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I just like how Luke flows in
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: his writing to the love of God.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Like, this is why you turn your
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: life around. God loves you regardless of
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: where you are and what you're doing.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: He loves you anyway. And so I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: had to, like. I wanted to make
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that shift from. Because I got to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: a point in the sermon, I was
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: like, man, this is hot. Because it's
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: a lot of fire involved. Like, you
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: know, there's a. There. There's the threat
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: of, you know, inheriting eternal damnation. But
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I love how Luke transitions his writing
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: into the Trinity and how God is
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: pleased and it shows God's love. And
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: so, like, I want. I really wanted
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to make that a point. Because you
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: want people to come to salvation and
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: change their lives and be transformed because
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: they love Christ. Yeah, because they love
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: God and they feel his love. Not
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: because you're afraid of going to hell,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: right? Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah. Because I love God. I'm gonna
Pastor Brent McQuay: read my Bible because I love God.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm gonna pray because I love God.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm gonna worship because I love God.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm not gonna steal because I love
Pastor Brent McQuay: God. I'm not gonna have an affair
Pastor Brent McQuay: because I love God. I'm not going
Pastor Brent McQuay: to, you know, abuse somebody. Like, it's.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's this. Because I love. Now I'm
Pastor Brent McQuay: going to do some things.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's not. I'm going to do some
Pastor Brent McQuay: things so that I can earn his
Pastor Brent McQuay: love. Yeah. So it's all about that
Pastor Brent McQuay: perspective.
David Beasley: Yeah. Just to line up with that
David Beasley: same. The same point. I would say
David Beasley: for me personally, there are addictions and
David Beasley: issues and sins and habits I had
David Beasley: that I wouldn't have been able to
David Beasley: give up if I did not willingly
David Beasley: say no. If I love God, my
David Beasley: actions have to show it. I love
David Beasley: him.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right.
David Beasley: You know, I cringe sometimes when I
David Beasley: hear individuals say, you know. And I
David Beasley: get it. You know, there are things
David Beasley: I still want to do. There's things.
David Beasley: But, hey, I don't do it simply
David Beasley: because I love God. I would love
David Beasley: to go back, but he won't let
David Beasley: me. I get it. I understand that
David Beasley: there's some fleshly, yeah, sure, it'll feel
David Beasley: good. But there's a point in time.
David Beasley: I firmly believe God can change your
David Beasley: hearts. God can change your desires based
David Beasley: on your love for him and who
David Beasley: he is. It's relational. There are things
David Beasley: that before marriage, I wouldn't have never
David Beasley: thought about doing or caring about. There
David Beasley: are things I care about and things
David Beasley: I actually enjoy being married to my
David Beasley: wife, you know, because I love her
David Beasley: and I know it helps our relationship,
David Beasley: and I see how it makes her
David Beasley: feel. Same thing applies, like you said,
David Beasley: Pastor Brent, to our relationship with God.
David Beasley: Right? That's key. You just touched on
David Beasley: something. Pastor Carlton, you mentioned how at
David Beasley: the end of your message, you mentioned
David Beasley: the love of God and how when
David Beasley: he baptized Jesus, he said, this is
David Beasley: my beloved son, in whom I'm well
David Beasley: pleased. That touched on his identity is
David Beasley: what you touched on. Can you elaborate
David Beasley: a little bit on how that should
David Beasley: affect us and comfort us when it
David Beasley: comes to our identity? Because I recently
David Beasley: actually read, I was reading a book
David Beasley: recently about that, how Jesus's identity was
David Beasley: confirmed there and how for us, we
David Beasley: too can be like man. He thinks
David Beasley: the same thing about us because we're
David Beasley: in Christ. So can you elaborate?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I explain it, what I feel, the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: sensation that I get, because it's a
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: spiritual sensation, I guess. Pastor Chris preached
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: a message where she says, you have
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to be confident that God loves you.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: You have to know it in your
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: heart. Even in your sin, you have
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to be confident that God loves you.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And sometimes, like, I get to a
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: place in my prayer, you know, I'll
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: admit a lot of times I'll get
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to praying, and then I ran out
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: of things to pray for. And when
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I get to that point of running
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: out of things to pray for, which
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I should be worshiping God and exalting
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: him and having conversation with him. But
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I get to a point, so a
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: lot of times in my prayer, and
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I even start prayers like this, just
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: thanking God for loving me because of
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: who he is, not because of anything
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that I've done. And when I get
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to a place where I start really
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: reflecting on God's love for me, it
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: completely changes me. It changes me in
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the moment. It'll get me through my
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: day. It'll get me through a rough
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: patch. It'll get me through a sin
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that I'm struggling with. Like when I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: start reflecting on God's love, I, I,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: this is why I can't explain, because
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I think I start feeling God's love
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: radiating through me. Me just not even
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: telling God that I love him, which
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I tell God I love him all
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the time. But once I confidently say
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to myself that God loves me, and
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I start thinking about it, I just
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: feel his love pouring over me. And
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: it completely changes me. And it's like,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: it's like a tangible effect that comes
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: over me. And it's like it's it's
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: more than God saying that I love
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: you. It's, it's. I don't know, man.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: It just changes my disposition. Like, I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: have a physical change inside of me
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: when I recognize when I worship God,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: when I pray to God with the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: confidence that he loves me. And I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: think that we as believers need to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: get to that point because we pour
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: out to God worship, we pour out
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to God praise. But sometimes we need
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to meditate on the fact that he
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: loves us. And we need to allow
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that love to flow through us and
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: change us from the inside.
David Beasley: Yeah, it sounds like that's a moment
David Beasley: of like pure unhindered freedom I would
David Beasley: feel because you're free in such a.
David Beasley: In such a way that it's like,
David Beasley: okay, God, nothing I do.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah, that's good.
David Beasley: Can separate me from your love. Nothing
David Beasley: I don't do can separate me from
David Beasley: your love. My failures, my successes, they
David Beasley: don't define me, right? People's perspectives don't
David Beasley: define me. People's what they like about
David Beasley: me, their compliments. They're cool, but they
David Beasley: don't carry me. They're criticisms. I hate
David Beasley: it, but they don't. They don't make
David Beasley: or break me. My love is fully
David Beasley: anchored in the love of Christ and
David Beasley: what he thinks and feels of me.
David Beasley: Because Jesus had that same affirmation and
David Beasley: because we're in him, we have it
David Beasley: too. So I feel like that sounds
David Beasley: like that's something you experience. And I've
David Beasley: had moments in prayer, in devotion, coming
David Beasley: to God, like, okay, God, I want
David Beasley: to pray. Not even run out, have
David Beasley: nothing to say sometimes. And those moments
David Beasley: have turned into pure worship. I'm like,
David Beasley: you know what, God, thank you. I
David Beasley: just thank you for who you are.
David Beasley: I have no requests. I'm just coming
David Beasley: to you bare saying, thank you, I
David Beasley: love you. I honor you for being
David Beasley: who you are. That's a great place
David Beasley: to be in. But that comes from
David Beasley: genuine repentance, fruit bearing, and a real
David Beasley: relationship. And not just feeling like I
David Beasley: got to do this to like check
David Beasley: a box to something.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I examine the Father's love for me,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: and then I examine Christ's love for
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: me. I meditate on what he did
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: for me at the cross. And a
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: lot of times that is like so
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: overwhelming to me that there's nothing I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: could pray for. There's nothing I could
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: think about. It's almost like I look
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: like a fool, like an idiot, like
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I can't believe I just. I pray
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: for these list of things that I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: have which is appropriate because God wants
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: you to be relational with him and
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: pray for those things. But I meditate
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: on the cross and the love that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Jesus had for me in that moment,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: and it just overwhelms me. And it's
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: just like. Like, that's the thing that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: says I'm bearing fruit because of my
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: changed heart, because of God loving me.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Not even because I love God. Like,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I love God and want to, you
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: know, bear fruit because of that, but
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: because he loves me out of himself,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: not because of anything that I did.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And it's like, man, I want to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: walk with God and please him in.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: In my life.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I. I talk about that a lot
Pastor Brent McQuay: when. When it comes to teaching people
Pastor Brent McQuay: how to pray. Like, I. I still
Pastor Brent McQuay: love the tabernacle prayer. It's still the,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, one of the main prayers that
Pastor Brent McQuay: I teach people how to pray. There's
Pastor Brent McQuay: seven steps in that process. You don't
Pastor Brent McQuay: actually pray for your own personal needs
Pastor Brent McQuay: and for. Even for the needs of
Pastor Brent McQuay: others until the seventh step. And so
Pastor Brent McQuay: often by the time I get there,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm like. Like, you've already done so
Pastor Brent McQuay: much, like, all these little things that
Pastor Brent McQuay: I just was thinking I needed to
Pastor Brent McQuay: come to you. And the problem is,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I think a lot of people, when
Pastor Brent McQuay: we pray, we just bring the list.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so having that system of prayer
Pastor Brent McQuay: where, like, the list comes last, I
Pastor Brent McQuay: think is just. It's awesome. So.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And when it comes last in the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: tabernacle, you're right in front.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You're in the presence.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah. You're in the presence of God.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And at that point, your list doesn't.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Like.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's like. It's funny compared to God.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: It's funny how you present the list
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: at the seventh stage when you're in
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the presence of God, where the list
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: doesn't matter anymore.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yep. Yep.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: It almost eliminates it from the beginning.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's. It's intentional, right?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You know, by the time you get
Pastor Brent McQuay: there. But. Yeah. But yes. Something you're
Pastor Brent McQuay: talking about, I think it reminded me
Pastor Brent McQuay: of the. The song. What's the line
Pastor Brent McQuay: that says I'll never be more loved
Pastor Brent McQuay: than I am right now?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And, like, for the longest time, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I struggle with that line because, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's. It's hard for me to wrap
Pastor Brent McQuay: my head around it because in. In
Pastor Brent McQuay: my perspective, love always grows. Like, I
Pastor Brent McQuay: love my wife more now than I
Pastor Brent McQuay: did when I first met her 20
Pastor Brent McQuay: years ago. Like, I love my kids
Pastor Brent McQuay: more now than I did when they
Pastor Brent McQuay: were newborn. Not to say I didn't
Pastor Brent McQuay: love them as newborns.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right. Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, I didn't know them Right. But
Pastor Brent McQuay: like now, seeing them, man, I love
Pastor Brent McQuay: them more.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But recognizing that, that God's love doesn't
Pastor Brent McQuay: grow because it is already at 100.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like there's no room for growth. Like
Pastor Brent McQuay: it is maxed out and, and to
Pastor Brent McQuay: recognize that before I, I do. Before
Pastor Brent McQuay: I ever preached a sermon.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Before I ever let a church, before
Pastor Brent McQuay: I ever prayed for anybody, before I
Pastor Brent McQuay: ever did any of the pastoral duties.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like he loved me when I was
Pastor Brent McQuay: a punk 13 year old kid being
Pastor Brent McQuay: stupid. And you can't make much more
Pastor Brent McQuay: at 41.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: When I'm dedicated my life to him.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like it didn't change his love for
Pastor Brent McQuay: me. And sometimes that's like I don't
Pastor Brent McQuay: understand how that works. And then sometimes
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm just like, thank you. Like I,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I got no other words. And just
Pastor Brent McQuay: thank you.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: When you're doing everything right. Yeah. He
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: loves you and it's the same love
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that he has for you when you're
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: doing everything wrong.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yep. In the midst of my sin,
Pastor Brent McQuay: he loves me just as much as
Pastor Brent McQuay: in those moments where I feel like
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm, I'm like, I'm like Jesus on
Pastor Brent McQuay: earth right now.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right. So should we keep on saying
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: it so grace can abound?
David Beasley: God forbid. No. You know the answer.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: He's quick.
David Beasley: Of course not.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Paul. I love Paul. He sets that
Pastor Brent McQuay: up. All right. I had to pull
Pastor Brent McQuay: out my phone. There's a book that
Pastor Brent McQuay: I think ties into this part of
Pastor Brent McQuay: the conversation that I highly recommend. It's
Pastor Brent McQuay: called Abba's Child, The Cry of the
Pastor Brent McQuay: Heart for Intimate Belonging. So abba's Child,
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's written by Brennan Manning and it's,
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's fantastic. I highly recommend it, especially
Pastor Brent McQuay: for guys like, I know that sometimes
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's a weird subject matter for us,
Pastor Brent McQuay: but that identity as a child of
Pastor Brent McQuay: God whom he loves. Abba's Child is
Pastor Brent McQuay: a really good book. Highly, highly recommend.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Abba's Child, and right now it's on
Pastor Brent McQuay: Amazon for 1149. There you go with
Pastor Brent McQuay: Prime.
David Beasley: Oh, Prime. I'll have it tomorrow. Perfect.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Men's book stuff. Let's do it.
David Beasley: No. Not only does he love us,
David Beasley: according to the story in Luke 3,
David Beasley: when Jesus was baptized, he's well pleased.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah.
David Beasley: As well. That's another one. Because we
David Beasley: can, we can be loved by our
David Beasley: earthly fathers and parents. I love you.
David Beasley: It's like we know we love. They
David Beasley: love us, we love our kids, you
David Beasley: know, but the pleasing part, like, are
David Beasley: we, Are they pleased with us? Are
David Beasley: we pleased with them?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: That's probably harder to fathom than him
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: loving Us.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And that's where I have a question.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Is that one transferable that.
David Beasley: I was thinking that.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Is it prescriptive or descriptive?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Right. Is this. Is this a statement
Pastor Brent McQuay: that. Okay, so we're drawing the parallel
Pastor Brent McQuay: that. That God is pleased. God the
Pastor Brent McQuay: Father is pleased with God the Son
Pastor Brent McQuay: in that moment. And we parallel that
Pastor Brent McQuay: to us. He can have love for
Pastor Brent McQuay: us, the same as. Yeah. Is that
Pastor Brent McQuay: pleasure? Like, where is. Where's the line
Pastor Brent McQuay: on that?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: He does not love us, but he
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: cannot be pleased with us.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I think that the Scriptures bear that
Pastor Brent McQuay: out.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: There's moments where he's very displeased with
Pastor Brent McQuay: Israel.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: That can be read in Genesis when
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: he said, I regret making you all.
David Beasley: Now, that's. Some will say it's old.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: What would they say?
David Beasley: Old covenant. Oh, no, we're now in
David Beasley: Christ. Now we have every spiritual blessing
David Beasley: in Christ.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: That was before our covenant.
David Beasley: We are his workmanship, created in Christ
David Beasley: Jesus for good works. Nothing can separate
David Beasley: us. We're in Christ. And when they
David Beasley: see us, they see us. When the
David Beasley: Father sees us in the Son, from
David Beasley: a positional sense, we are already. So
David Beasley: when Jesus sanctified, glorified.
Pastor Brent McQuay: When Jesus told Peter, get thee behind
Pastor Brent McQuay: me, Satan.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: He wasn't pleased. He wasn't pleased.
David Beasley: He wasn't pleased. I'm only playing the
David Beasley: other side. That's before Jesus died and
David Beasley: resurrected and established the new covenant.
Pastor Brent McQuay: When Paul was killing Christians, was God
Pastor Brent McQuay: pleased?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: No, Paul wasn't.
David Beasley: Paul wasn't saved yet.
Pastor Brent McQuay: When we're in Christ, pleasure is only
Pastor Brent McQuay: in.
David Beasley: In Christ.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Christ.
David Beasley: I'm just saying.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That's an interesting one. I. I don't
Pastor Brent McQuay: know that I have an answer for
Pastor Brent McQuay: put any thought in that, but I.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I would. I would. No doubt his
Pastor Brent McQuay: love transfers and we
David Beasley: should aim to please God.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Okay, so is there. Is he not.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: This is hard to say. Is he
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: not pleased with us or not pleased
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: with our actions? Is it one in
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the same great distinction? I don't know.
David Beasley: Is it a sense of. When I
David Beasley: look at my son Nehemiah, and I
David Beasley: say, son, I love you because you're
David Beasley: my son.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I'm not pleased with Spencer.
David Beasley: Sometimes nothing you can do can make
David Beasley: me not love you.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Right.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I love.
David Beasley: So that's true.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah.
David Beasley: But what is the pleasing and the
David Beasley: love Come. Yeah, I get it.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That's a.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: When you don't.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I think I would probably lean in.
Pastor Brent McQuay: The. The pleasure statement was specific to
Pastor Brent McQuay: Jesus because Jesus was still blameless. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I don't know that he got
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to 30 years without hiccup.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm well pleased the 30 years which
Pastor Brent McQuay: you've done, you followed every law, you've,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you've done everything that I've told you
Pastor Brent McQuay: to do. You're obedient to your parents
Pastor Brent McQuay: even when you're like,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: my father's business. My dad.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That one, not that one. Yeah. So
Pastor Brent McQuay: I don't know, but that. Yeah, interesting.
David Beasley: All right, let's switch gears just a
David Beasley: little bit. Pastor Carlton, you mentioned also
David Beasley: your or Robert story.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Man, that was a great story.
David Beasley: That was a good story.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I was clapping so hard in that
Pastor Brent McQuay: moment that right there, people need to
David Beasley: be going to Walmart. Buddy says he's
David Beasley: preaching the gospel outside
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: of Walmart because when you at or
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: you, you confident as an 18 year
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: old, it's.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You are the most saved in the
Pastor Brent McQuay: country.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: It's right. It's easy for your faith
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: identification to be connected to the school.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Charismatic Christian University. Everybody's on fire for
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Jesus. Yeah, Most people on fire for
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Jesus
Pastor Brent McQuay: at oru, man, there was a time
Pastor Brent McQuay: where if you were a charismatic evangelical
Pastor Brent McQuay: pastor, you went to oru, like right,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you did. You didn't get hired by
Pastor Brent McQuay: a church un your diploma, say Oral
Pastor Brent McQuay: Roberts University.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: So you're walking around with this chip
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: on your shoulder. You're walking around like,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: we are the holy of the elite.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: We're first in heaven. And it's just
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: like a mindset. I'm not saying that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the school pushes this culture at all.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: It's just a mindset that you have
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: when you're in that bubble all the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: time, 24 hours, you, you live there.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And so I go to Walmart, which
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: is right outside the bubble, across the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: street on Lewis Avenue. And I walk
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: through the, and I'm approaching the door
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: and this is a guy, he's evangelizing.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: He's doing what we should be doing.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: We in class studying charismatic life and
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: healing. And he's out here doing the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: work of the Lord. And so he's
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: like, he's asking people
Pastor Brent McQuay: did he have his ORU degree.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: He was not from ORU at all.
David Beasley: He came out the wilderness and these
David Beasley: things eating wild his up and he
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: was eating equate meat, preparing the way.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: So he's out here doing the work
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: of the Lord. He's, you know, evangelizing.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: He's asking people if they know Jesus.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: You know, he's trying to, you know,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: pray with people for salvation. And I,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I see him and I say to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: myself, good for him.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, way to go, Buddy.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Audacity. I'm like, good for him.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Look at him trying to be like
Pastor Brent McQuay: us.
David Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: To Reach our level or Roberts University,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: shirt on. Look at him. And I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: get to the door, and he's like,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: do you know Jesus? And I'm like,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: how dare he?
Pastor Brent McQuay: What a dumb question.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I go to oral.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You see the shirts?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I go to oru. And I might
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: have did the hand gesture behind me
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: because the school's behind me. Like, I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: go to oru, and he says, right.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Do you know Jesus? And I answered
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: him. I was like, yeah, I know
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Jesus. But I'm walking through the store
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: like, man, he asked me again. Had
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: nothing to do with the school. Why
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: did I say I went to oru?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Made me think in that moment. And
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the Holy Spirit brought it back to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: my memory when I was writing the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: message. Like, you remember that moment when
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: you had. When you tried to affiliate
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: your salvation with the institution? It's like,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that's what John the Baptist was trying
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to tell the Jews who said that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: we children of Abraham. Yeah. Like, we.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: We're good on repentance. We're good on
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: turning our lives around because we are
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: chosen. And I was like, God can
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: make children of Abraham from these rocks.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Like, it's not about your affiliation. It's
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: a personal responsibility. And I had to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: learn that. It's a personal responsibility. Has
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: nothing to do with me coming out
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: of the church, God in Christ, and
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: my grandfather being the bishop or me
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: going to oru. Like, come on, man.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I'm. You know, personal responsibility is the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: most important thing. Because you're not going
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to have your ORU shirt when you're
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: in line getting judged, right? You come
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: in front of Jesus, said, Jesus, I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: went to oru. So we good, right?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Can't you tell?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: You know, And Jesus is like, yeah,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: but you. You never knew me and
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I never knew you.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So it's totally acceptable to go up
Pastor Brent McQuay: to somebody wearing a Disciples Church shirt
Pastor Brent McQuay: and say, do you know Jesus?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yes, absolutely.
Pastor Brent McQuay: 100% go for it.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Because they could have got that, bought
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that merch from Pretty and First Love
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: and walked out of.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Hopefully they can get it from Goodwill.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Dropping off our stuff at Goodwill.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yes, we got a Goodwill being in
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the back of the church. Hopefully people
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: are putting their old DC stuff in
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: there, and it's been spread all over
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the world.
David Beasley: Wow. Somebody walks up to me, I
David Beasley: go to Disciples Church. Of course I
David Beasley: know Jesus.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Of course I know Jesus.
David Beasley: You don't know about Disciples Church?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: No, but we can't. Wow. We can't.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: What am I trying to say? Make
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: our salvation associate with an institution, an
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: affiliation, denomination. Yeah, any kind of affiliation.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Like our It's a personal responsibility that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: we have.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, it's good.
David Beasley: Yeah. You can be guilty by association
David Beasley: if you're riding around with some folks
David Beasley: who got drugs.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Association. You can't.
David Beasley: You can't be saved by association.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: That's good, I would say. She prayed
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: with me all the time. Therefore nothing.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Therefore nothing. Therefore you had a grandmother
Pastor Brent McQuay: that was saved and prayed over you.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That's what that means.
David Beasley: So in light of that, in light
David Beasley: of the fact that we can't be
David Beasley: saved by association, we're supposed to bear
David Beasley: fruit in keeping with repentance. Children of
David Beasley: Abraham, it don't matter. You got to
David Beasley: know Jesus for yourself. What is a
David Beasley: winnowing fork and why is that significant
David Beasley: for individuals who need to know Jesus
David Beasley: for themselves? Because if they don't, that
David Beasley: winnowing fork might be utilized.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: John says the winnowing fork is going
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to separate the wheat from the shaft.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And the shaft he's going to put
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: in an unquenchable fire. Jesus is going
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to filter. Yeah, Filter through the people
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: and take the people that belong to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: him and everyone else. The shaft is
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: going to be tossed into a fire.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: It's hard language. It's very difficult language.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I had a hard time reading it,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: let alone processing it for a sermon.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And the, the literal side of that,
Pastor Brent McQuay: the winning winnowing fork was a tool
Pastor Brent McQuay: that was used to separate wheat from
Pastor Brent McQuay: the chaff. Yeah.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Because you would lay out the wheat
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: in the barn or the threshing floor.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yep. And then the. They would take
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the. The winnowing fork and scrape out
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: all of the wheat.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yep.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And bring it into it, into themselves.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And the shaft would be left to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: blow away in the wind.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So we've, we've got machines that do
Pastor Brent McQuay: that for us now, big old tractors.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But same process. You're basically, you're. You're
Pastor Brent McQuay: scraping out the good and leaving the
Pastor Brent McQuay: bad.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And you don't want to be the
Pastor Brent McQuay: bad that's left behind.
David Beasley: So this is separating the wheat from
David Beasley: the tares, so to speak. When Jesus
David Beasley: said.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah.
David Beasley: And notice the text says God to
David Beasley: do it, which is why Jesus said,
David Beasley: in another place, we can't separate wheat
David Beasley: from tears.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah.
David Beasley: And that falls in line with fruit
David Beasley: inspection. Like it all connects.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah.
David Beasley: Because as we are keeping making sure
David Beasley: we're bearing fruit and keeping with repentance,
David Beasley: we got to make sure we don't
David Beasley: try to over evaluate other people's fruit
David Beasley: and become the win win for ourselves.
David Beasley: Trying to separate now. Yeah. Yeah.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: We.
David Beasley: We examine. Yeah. Fruit is something we.
David Beasley: We'll notice.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah.
David Beasley: But we're not. We don't make the
David Beasley: final determination because we not God.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Right. I still love Pastor John. Always
Pastor Brent McQuay: used to say, I don't have a
Pastor Brent McQuay: heaven or hell to put people in.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And I know he stole that from
Pastor Brent McQuay: somebody, but I'm stealing from him. So
Pastor Brent McQuay: eventually somebody's like. Brent used to always
Pastor Brent McQuay: say, yeah, but, yeah, we don't. We
Pastor Brent McQuay: don't have heaven to hell to. To
Pastor Brent McQuay: throw people in. And so, yeah, we
Pastor Brent McQuay: can't go around as fruit inspectors. However,
Pastor Brent McQuay: there is a. There's a tension.
David Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: In that, like, yeah, we're not fruit
Pastor Brent McQuay: inspectors, but we all. We all are
Pastor Brent McQuay: also supposed to point out false teaching
Pastor Brent McQuay: facts. Right. Like, there's so much of
Pastor Brent McQuay: the New Testament that talks through what
Pastor Brent McQuay: that looks like, how to do that,
Pastor Brent McQuay: that we are instructed to do it.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so, like, man, when somebody is
Pastor Brent McQuay: teaching something that's anti biblical antichrist, when
Pastor Brent McQuay: they're trying to say, I'm a Christian
Pastor Brent McQuay: and I think that this sin thing
Pastor Brent McQuay: is totally fine, it's like, whoa, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm not a fruit inspector anymore. Now
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm. I'm judging righteously as the Bible
Pastor Brent McQuay: instructs me to. And so, like, there
Pastor Brent McQuay: is that tension of, like, okay, where
Pastor Brent McQuay: am I being a fruit inspector? And
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm just not happy with their, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: display of Christianity. And where is it?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, no, no, no. This person is
Pastor Brent McQuay: claiming Christianity, but they're not living it.
David Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And I've got to. I've got to
Pastor Brent McQuay: address it.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right. Yeah. Right. But we don't make
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the final decision if where someone goes,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: where they inherit eternity in. In heaven
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: or.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Unquenchable fire sounds like. I mean, like,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: this doesn't go away. The language that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: John the Baptist used in his ministry
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: and teaching and preparing the way for
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Christ was very, very strong. Brood of
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: vipers. He mentioned being tossed in a
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: fire a couple times. Like, it's very
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: harsh.
Pastor Brent McQuay: There's an ax laid at the root.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Ax laid at the roof.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I love that. That imagery. Like, it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: not just that there's an axe.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: That's what I said. It's not just
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: a threat.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, it's like, I've got the ax
Pastor Brent McQuay: in my hand and I've got it
Pastor Brent McQuay: right here.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yes.
Pastor Brent McQuay: All I got to do is.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right. So just. Just make one false
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: move, and this is what's gonna happen.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: The fire's ready. Like, this is. This
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: is very strong language, but the people
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: respond positively. They say, what do we
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: need to do? Yeah. You know, like.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And then they all get baptized.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: It says they all get Baptized.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's crazy.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Which is wonderful.
David Beasley: I think you did a good job
David Beasley: at displaying that yesterday. You gave a
David Beasley: sense of urgency. That's what I hear.
David Beasley: And what John the Baptist is teaching.
David Beasley: What Luke chapter three is saying, urgency.
David Beasley: Like, today, you might want to make
Pastor Brent McQuay: a decision, and that urgency is always
Pastor Brent McQuay: there because tomorrow is not guaranteed to
Pastor Brent McQuay: any of us. Not promised. You could
Pastor Brent McQuay: get in a car accident. You could
Pastor Brent McQuay: have a brain aneurysm. You could have
Pastor Brent McQuay: a heart attack. You could. Jesus could
Pastor Brent McQuay: come back tomorrow.
David Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, we just don't know what could
Pastor Brent McQuay: happen. And so, like, today is the
Pastor Brent McQuay: day. There's a Bible verse that talks
Pastor Brent McQuay: about that today is the day of
Pastor Brent McQuay: salvation. And it's like, man, I think
Pastor Brent McQuay: I love the fact that it's today
Pastor Brent McQuay: because it's always today.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right. Right. And that's why we. We
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: prayed in the end. I said, even
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: those that are. That have been saved
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: since the second trimester, like John, you
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: know, filled with the Holy Spirit. I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: hope people got that. You know, he
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: was in Elizabeth's belt.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I think most people did.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I don't know. Yeah. You know, sometimes
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: my humor.
David Beasley: He was dropping bars. You catch it.
David Beasley: Like, okay, I heard that little.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Somebody was writing down Prepare the Way
Pastor Brent McQuay: Ministries. Like, they're. They're about to get
Pastor Brent McQuay: business cards.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: 501c 3. Prepare the way Ministries.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That's a good name.
David Beasley: They're about to launch. You talked about
David Beasley: launching before. It's time. Etw.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah. They. I wanted everybody to repent.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: It doesn't matter if you've been saved
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: all your life. Like, I wanted everybody
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to turn from their sins.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: At least to have it in their
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: mind. Let me, like, I'm. I'm glad
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that we were able to do that,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that we prayed over ourselves and say,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: okay, I know the sin that I'm
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: dealing with and living with inside. I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: need to turn away from my sins
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: now, today and turn towards God. It's
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: not just for new believers or for
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: unbelievers. It's for everybody.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Repentance should be a. A regular part
Pastor Brent McQuay: of your life.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Probably daily. Maybe even more than just
Pastor Brent McQuay: daily. Maybe multiple times a day, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: depending on what's going on. Like, hopefully
Pastor Brent McQuay: we're getting to a place where we
Pastor Brent McQuay: don't have to repent quite as often.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: But.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But that repentance, man, and. And it's.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That's the maturity of a believer. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: early on in your. Your faith, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you're repenting for, like, these big, massive
Pastor Brent McQuay: sins. Later on in your life, you're
Pastor Brent McQuay: repenting for it, man. The Way I
Pastor Brent McQuay: looked at that person, man, the. The
Pastor Brent McQuay: way the tone of my voice when
Pastor Brent McQuay: I was talking to my boss. Yeah,
Pastor Brent McQuay: yeah, man. Like, all of a sudden
Pastor Brent McQuay: you start realizing, like, man, it's not
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, okay, I did all the drugs
Pastor Brent McQuay: and I had three prostitutes and I,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you know, did all these things. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: as you mature as a believer, there's
Pastor Brent McQuay: still things to repent from.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right, right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: They just don't look that glaring to
Pastor Brent McQuay: the public, but in God's eyes, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: sin sucks.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah. But that's growth for us, though.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Sanctification.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: We keep growing and being more like
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Christ.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so one guy could be repenting
Pastor Brent McQuay: for murdering somebody, and you could be
Pastor Brent McQuay: repenting for cussing the guy that cut
Pastor Brent McQuay: you off in traffic and say, man,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: yeah, I hope he gets out of
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: my head. Not even. Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Not even just in my head, this
Pastor Brent McQuay: guy. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
David Beasley: I was going that. I was going
David Beasley: in that direction. It goes deep into
David Beasley: just our actions. Right. Our mindset.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah.
David Beasley: So in that sense, it's almost as
David Beasley: if repentance is a lifestyle.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah.
David Beasley: Because every day we can wake up
David Beasley: in the morning, alarm clock goes off
David Beasley: after hitting snooze three times. I don't
David Beasley: ever do that when it's time to
David Beasley: come here, though, by the way. But
David Beasley: when you're.
Pastor Brent McQuay: The fact that he had to slip
David Beasley: that in, so brings it in. You'd
David Beasley: have hit it only two times before
David Beasley: here. But your mind has to shift
David Beasley: sometimes. Like, you got. You know, there
David Beasley: was a job I used to have.
David Beasley: Not here. I used to have. Be
David Beasley: like, I hate. I don't feel like
David Beasley: going in this place. This place is
David Beasley: crazy. Them folks, they get on my
David Beasley: nerves. Repent. Change your mind. You pray
David Beasley: for it. You prepare for it. God
David Beasley: provided it for you. You have an
David Beasley: assignment. You have a purpose there. Like,
David Beasley: you gotta do it as unto me.
David Beasley: Repent. Like, you know, getting up. Neo,
David Beasley: could you please come on? It's time
David Beasley: to go to school. Let's go, boy,
David Beasley: would you come on. Repent. You get
David Beasley: mad for no reason. You know, a
David Beasley: lifestyle of repentance, and it happens in
David Beasley: art. So to change your mind shows
David Beasley: us that it's always occurring because we
David Beasley: always got to shift our thought process
David Beasley: in the moment. So repentance is consistent.
David Beasley: So let's see, one more thing. Let's
David Beasley: see before.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: How long is this podcast?
David Beasley: That's what I'm wondering, man.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Taisha's always the one ending thing.
David Beasley: Listen, y', all, let me in the
David Beasley: seat. I'm here now. No, no, we
David Beasley: almost done.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: What's our Number.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That's good.
David Beasley: Oh, we good?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, there's plenty of time.
David Beasley: Another hour and a half. We good?
David Beasley: What time we got on five? No,
David Beasley: but. So totally fine. One more, though.
David Beasley: Here we go. Talk to somebody in
David Beasley: their season of wilderness. In the wilderness
David Beasley: season. I remember you mentioned that. Yeah,
David Beasley: you mentioned that earlier.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I told Pastor Brandon, I said, I'm
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: only on the second half of verse
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: two, and I had like 2,000 words
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: written or something like that. And I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: had a lot more to say. And
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I was like, luke chapter three is
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: not about this.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, about God's timing. And all you
Pastor Brent McQuay: had gotten to was, and the word
Pastor Brent McQuay: of the Lord came to him in
Pastor Brent McQuay: the wilderness.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yes. I could have wrote a whole
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: sermon on that.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And it would have been fire.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And I would have. And I was
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: just like, wait, Luke 3 is not
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: about this. But it was so, like.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I don't know. It was good for
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: me. I don't know. I was like,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I have to share it.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Well, the fun part is we're going
Pastor Brent McQuay: to talk more about wilderness next week,
Pastor Brent McQuay: too, because we go from John in
Pastor Brent McQuay: the wilderness to Jesus in the wilderness.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And it's.
David Beasley: Yeah, a lot happens in the wilderness.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: So what was your question? What do
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: you say to people?
David Beasley: There are individuals who might be in
David Beasley: the season of their particular season of
David Beasley: being in the wilderness? And that looks
David Beasley: different and especially like different purposes.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: It's difficult when you know that you've
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: been called to do something or there's
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: a promise or you. You've heard from
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: God about something that's going to happen
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: or he's going to walk you into.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And then there's a waiting period. There's
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that period of time where it's like,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: all right, God, you said that this
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: was going to happen. I see things
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: moving around me. I see action steps
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that I could take. I see potential
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: doors that could be open and doors
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that are closing. But I haven't heard
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: your voice to tell me to go
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: or to start or to do. You
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: know, I haven't seen the. The. The
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: godly action happen yet. For me to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: know that this is from you. And
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: in that time, what you do is
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: you get closer to God. Because what
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: you want to do is you want
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to train yourself to be able to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: hear his voice. Because when it's time
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: for you to move, when it's time,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: when he tells you, all right, now
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: is the time for you to do
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: X, Y, and Z, or now is
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the time for me to move in
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: your life, you need to have keen
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: ears to hear from Him. And so
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Like, I mentioned a bunch of Bible
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: characters. I mentioned David being anointed as
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: king and not immediately being king, but
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: waiting for the. God's timing. Mentioned Abraham
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: and Sarah waiting 25 years to have
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: a child. I went through, yeah, quite
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: a few, you know, Joseph being in
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: slavery and in prison, waiting for God's
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: timing. And we have to do the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: same thing. We have to wait for
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: God's timing. Because if we move without
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: God, if we move too early or
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: if we miss his voice and move
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: too late, it's not that God can't
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: providentially make things happen for his will
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: or for us, but we want to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: make sure that we are in line
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: with his timing. Because, you know, we
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: could be off. And God's like, I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: never told you to take that action
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: or to take that step or to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: do that thing. And now you're out
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: here presumably on your own.
David Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And now, like the causes and effects
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: of your actions is going to be
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: on you, you know, in God's grace,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: he's going to be with us. But
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: we want to make sure that we
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: are following his voice and following his
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: will especially. It's, it's, it's one thing
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to say, I'm going to follow God
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: and his guidance. But we have an
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: anxiousness when we know that God has
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: told us something, when we know that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: there is a call or prophecy or
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: a promise that applies to something that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: we're in or applies to our life,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: and we get an anxiousness and we
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: want to go out and make something
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: happen. Dennis Kramer had said something in
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: one of our first love. He's a
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: prophet that comes to our church often.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: He said, you know, when you receive
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: a prophetic word, you, you. There's a
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: period of time where you don't do
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: anything. You just listen to God and
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: wait for his movement. Because you do
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: not want to force prophecy. You don't
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: want to force fulfillment. You want to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: let God move and God be the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: voice that tells you to go.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And so that's what I feel like
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: John the Baptist did. He, he knew
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: his calling. Isaiah prophesied over him. Seven
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: hundred years ago, his dad had an
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: experience in the temple with the angel
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: telling him what his son was going
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to do. So John was born knowing
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: exactly what he was supposed to do.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: But John did something interesting. He went
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to the wilderness. He separated himself from
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the world and he dedicated himself to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: God until he heard his voice.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And that's biblically, that's what the wilderness
Pastor Brent McQuay: almost always represents. Preparation. And so, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I think the tension There is in
Pastor Brent McQuay: that waiting. You don't force God's hand.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You don't force the situation to happen.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But at the same time, waiting is
Pastor Brent McQuay: not a passive action. Like, biblically speaking.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, it is. Waiting is a preparation.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Right. And so in the waiting, what
Pastor Brent McQuay: are you doing to grow closer to
Pastor Brent McQuay: God? What are you doing to prepare
Pastor Brent McQuay: yourself? So you got a prophetic word
Pastor Brent McQuay: that you're going to be an amazing
Pastor Brent McQuay: preacher. Okay. Start writing sermons.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Not that you're going to preach them
Pastor Brent McQuay: yet.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But start the process of writing sermons.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Start. Go to a class, take us.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Take a lesson. Go to school, do
Pastor Brent McQuay: something to learn, like the communication styles.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Learn proper hermeneutics so you can actually
Pastor Brent McQuay: dissect the Bible and interpret the Bible
Pastor Brent McQuay: correctly because you don't want to be
Pastor Brent McQuay: a preacher out there preaching heresy. So,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, you got. You've got a lot
Pastor Brent McQuay: of preparing to. To do. And you
Pastor Brent McQuay: may have gotten a prophetic word that
Pastor Brent McQuay: you're going to, you know, plant a
Pastor Brent McQuay: church, but that planting a church is
Pastor Brent McQuay: 20 years down the road, and you
Pastor Brent McQuay: got 20 years of serving and learning
Pastor Brent McQuay: and growing as. As you're being developed,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you're being prepared. And I think the
Pastor Brent McQuay: challenge for a lot of us is
Pastor Brent McQuay: we don't necessarily know how long that
Pastor Brent McQuay: season is going to last.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I've had preparation seasons that lasted just
Pastor Brent McQuay: a few weeks or months. I've had
Pastor Brent McQuay: what I feel like our preparation season
Pastor Brent McQuay: that lasted my entire life. So far,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, we're still preparing. And so, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you never really know, but you just
Pastor Brent McQuay: trust God in that process and you
Pastor Brent McQuay: say, okay, I'm going to do my
Pastor Brent McQuay: part right now, whatever that looks like.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That may just be me in a
Pastor Brent McQuay: room with a Bible and a journal,
Pastor Brent McQuay: and I'm just praying and hearing from
Pastor Brent McQuay: God until it's. He says, all right,
Pastor Brent McQuay: time. Time for that action.
David Beasley: You mean to tell me the next
David Beasley: seven days, I won't have my response,
David Beasley: my breakthrough?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Probably not. Maybe not maybe, Will. It's.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's different for people. For different people,
Pastor Brent McQuay: different situations.
David Beasley: Say seven days. Seven days.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I mean, I went from the Israelites
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: being in Egypt for 400 years to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Jesus being in the wilderness for 40
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: days. You never know what God's time
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: is like, you know? Yeah, so, yeah,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: very true.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Israel was in the wilderness for 40
Pastor Brent McQuay: years. We're going to get in these
Pastor Brent McQuay: parallels next week with chapter four. But
Pastor Brent McQuay: the parallels between Israel in the wilderness
Pastor Brent McQuay: for 40 years, Jesus in the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: wilderness for 40 days, going through water
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: into the wilderness. Yeah, that's going to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: be some good stuff, man. I can't
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Wait.
Pastor Brent McQuay: There's way too much. Yeah, there's way
Pastor Brent McQuay: too much. There's way too many parallels.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You can even. Yeah. That baptism.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah. Yes. Y.
Pastor Brent McQuay: All of it.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Come on. Come on.
David Beasley: Let's get a. Let's get a taste
David Beasley: test, everybody.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: T. In next. We've already been an
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: hour one.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I. I can tell you right now.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Live or something.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I can tell you right now we're
Pastor Brent McQuay: not going to be able to cover
Pastor Brent McQuay: everything.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Why not?
Pastor Brent McQuay: And.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And here's.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Here's the fun service.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Here's. Let's not have worship.
Pastor Brent McQuay: We have cut.
David Beasley: No, we got to have worship.
Pastor Brent McQuay: We cut chapter four into three parts.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So I'm just covering the. The first
Pastor Brent McQuay: 15 verses on Sunday. And even just
Pastor Brent McQuay: covering the first 15 verses, I could
Pastor Brent McQuay: probably preach for 15 hours. Like, it's.
Pastor Brent McQuay: There's just. There's so much in this
Pastor Brent McQuay: little place. Jesus is being tempted. He
Pastor Brent McQuay: quotes scripture, but every verse he quotes
Pastor Brent McQuay: is from the same section of the
Pastor Brent McQuay: Bible.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Deuteronomy. And it's. The Deuteronomy is an
Pastor Brent McQuay: explanation. It's like. It's almost like giving
Pastor Brent McQuay: Israel like a. Here's why that happened.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like in Exodus and in Numbers. You're
Pastor Brent McQuay: going through the wilderness.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Deuteronomy is like, here's what God was
Pastor Brent McQuay: doing in your life.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And like, Jesus uses those verses to
Pastor Brent McQuay: combat man. It's. There's a lot. Chapter.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: It's gonna be good.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Chapter four is good.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Jesus life parallels the journey of. Of
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the Israelites.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Out of Egypt.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But yeah, the. The fun thing next
Pastor Brent McQuay: week is we're going to be in
Pastor Brent McQuay: Luke chapter four in First John, in
Pastor Brent McQuay: Genesis three. We probably going to spend
Pastor Brent McQuay: a lot of time. Deuteronomy 8, Deuteronomy
Pastor Brent McQuay: 6. We might go to Numbers. We
Pastor Brent McQuay: might go to Exodus. Right now I'm
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, I think I gotta.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: It's a Bible study or a Luke
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Bible study.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Right.
David Beasley: These are your cross references.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Like.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, okay. Just like he. Because. So
Pastor Brent McQuay: there's parallels. The three temptations are paralleled
Pastor Brent McQuay: in John in first John, and then
Pastor Brent McQuay: they also mimic Genesis 3. The temptation
Pastor Brent McQuay: there. Like, there's. I don't know. I
Pastor Brent McQuay: can't preach the whole sermon right now.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Gotta wait for next week.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: We have.
Pastor Brent McQuay: There's a lot of Bible to get
Pastor Brent McQuay: through.
David Beasley: That's good.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: All right. Lashan, you hear that? We
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: only doing one song. Who's hosted next
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: week? We just.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Fun times.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: 30 seconds.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Actually, I think it's Jason hosting and
Pastor Brent McQuay: me preaching, which usually is our longest
Pastor Brent McQuay: services. If anybody's been ever clocking, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: man, service went really long. Today, just
Pastor Brent McQuay: look back, it was probably me preaching
Pastor Brent McQuay: and Jason hosting.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Huh.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So the dynamics shout out to Jason.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's gonna be awesome.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: But I.
Pastor Brent McQuay: We did promise a couple of
David Beasley: updates.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah. A couple of stories from Iran.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So. So here. Here's where, like, my,
Pastor Brent McQuay: My dilemma. Like, I don't want this
Pastor Brent McQuay: to get political or anything like that,
Pastor Brent McQuay: but, like, it's. It's been weird being
Pastor Brent McQuay: on social media. I was. I was
Pastor Brent McQuay: just talking to David earlier today and.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And about this, like, my social media
Pastor Brent McQuay: feed. It's like, Christians from Chicago are
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, this is horrible. This is awful.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Why would we do this thing? And
Pastor Brent McQuay: Christians in Iran and in Turkey were.
Pastor Brent McQuay: A bunch of the people I'm connected
Pastor Brent McQuay: to are in Turkey because they fled
Pastor Brent McQuay: Iran. They're. They're Iranians, but they're in
Pastor Brent McQuay: Turkey. But anyways, they're all celebrating. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's like 100% is like, thank you,
Pastor Brent McQuay: Jesus, for saving our people. Like, and.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so it's.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I'm.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm watching, like, Christians.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Like, it's just information. It's a matter
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: of information. Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And it's. It's. I don't know. It's.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's just. It's heartbreaking to me to
Pastor Brent McQuay: see, like, this disconnect. I just want
Pastor Brent McQuay: to introduce some of the Chicago Christians
Pastor Brent McQuay: to the. The Elam group. But so
Pastor Brent McQuay: one of the things.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Who's Elon?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah. So Elam is a missions organization
Pastor Brent McQuay: that we work with that we can't
Pastor Brent McQuay: really give a lot of details about
Pastor Brent McQuay: because the work they do is in
Pastor Brent McQuay: Iran and it is illegal. And so,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, they. There's, like, there's stories that
Pastor Brent McQuay: I heard that I can't share. I
Pastor Brent McQuay: got to see video that they won't
Pastor Brent McQuay: play outside of the room that I
Pastor Brent McQuay: was in.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So, like, it's. There's a lot of
Pastor Brent McQuay: it that's very secretive. They had to
Pastor Brent McQuay: blur faces for a lot of things
Pastor Brent McQuay: and don't give you real names for
Pastor Brent McQuay: people on, like, testimony sheets and stuff
Pastor Brent McQuay: like that. But. So ELAM is actually.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's the organization we partnered with. We've
Pastor Brent McQuay: been partnering with them for a long
Pastor Brent McQuay: time.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Very long.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But last year, December, we raised a
Pastor Brent McQuay: little over $100,000 to plant underground churches.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so they. They estimated, what about
Pastor Brent McQuay: a thousand dollars to get. To get
Pastor Brent McQuay: the resources and the training and the
Pastor Brent McQuay: equipping of the. The house church, the
Pastor Brent McQuay: underground church. And so you do the
Pastor Brent McQuay: Math, what was 113 churches we were
Pastor Brent McQuay: able to provide for? And so basically,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'll start with. So there was an
Pastor Brent McQuay: event that happened back in January in
Pastor Brent McQuay: Iran, January 8th and 9th, where the
Pastor Brent McQuay: people out of a protest towards the
Pastor Brent McQuay: government who had basically destroyed the economy
Pastor Brent McQuay: of the nation, like the shops were
Pastor Brent McQuay: being closed down. Like, it was just.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It was bad, getting worse and it
Pastor Brent McQuay: was getting darker and darker. And so
Pastor Brent McQuay: the Iranian people, like went into the
Pastor Brent McQuay: streets to protest peaceful protests.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Not no weapons, no nothing, like, because
Pastor Brent McQuay: I can't even. And the government of
Pastor Brent McQuay: Iran's response to that protest was to
Pastor Brent McQuay: send the military to kill. It wasn't
Pastor Brent McQuay: military action to get them off the
Pastor Brent McQuay: streets. It was literally their instructions were
Pastor Brent McQuay: to go and kill the people that
Pastor Brent McQuay: were dissenting. And so in the course
Pastor Brent McQuay: of two days, the reports we got
Pastor Brent McQuay: on the US side was like 30,000
Pastor Brent McQuay: people died in those two days. Elam
Pastor Brent McQuay: says the number's probably closer to somewhere
Pastor Brent McQuay: between 40 and 80,000 people. I heard
Pastor Brent McQuay: one person even claim 90,000 people, but
Pastor Brent McQuay: I don't know what the real number
Pastor Brent McQuay: is.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But even if you go with the
Pastor Brent McQuay: conservative 40,000, it's 40,000 people of their
Pastor Brent McQuay: country were killed by their government for
Pastor Brent McQuay: marching in the streets. And the executions
Pastor Brent McQuay: were horrific. One of the things that
Pastor Brent McQuay: they would intentionally do is they would
Pastor Brent McQuay: use shotgun pellets. So they would shoot
Pastor Brent McQuay: these non lethal route. They would shoot
Pastor Brent McQuay: them like in the legs and things.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Now that wasn't happening for the majority.
Pastor Brent McQuay: The majority were being shot in the
Pastor Brent McQuay: head, right. But a lot of people,
Pastor Brent McQuay: they would do this intentionally and then
Pastor Brent McQuay: they would monitor the hospitals and anybody
Pastor Brent McQuay: that came to the hospital with family
Pastor Brent McQuay: with these wounds in their legs, they
Pastor Brent McQuay: would arrest the entire family. So it
Pastor Brent McQuay: was like a way of like getting.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Not just. Yeah, it was bait, essentially.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So, like there was a story of
Pastor Brent McQuay: a grandmother who, her granddaughter was shot
Pastor Brent McQuay: in the torso, in the legs, and
Pastor Brent McQuay: kind of like up, like right through
Pastor Brent McQuay: here with one of those shots.
Pastor Brent McQuay: She had like 17. They showed us
Pastor Brent McQuay: the X rays, had like 17 pellets
Pastor Brent McQuay: in her body. They had to drive
Pastor Brent McQuay: her several hours out of the city
Pastor Brent McQuay: that they were in to find like
Pastor Brent McQuay: a rural area that had a hospital
Pastor Brent McQuay: to try and convince two nurses to
Pastor Brent McQuay: leave the hospital to come to where
Pastor Brent McQuay: they were to do medical procedure to
Pastor Brent McQuay: remove these, these pellets from, from the
Pastor Brent McQuay: ground.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like just absolutely horrific stories. But in
Pastor Brent McQuay: the midst of that, and here's, here's
Pastor Brent McQuay: what I wanted to get to. In
Pastor Brent McQuay: the midst of that, God is doing
Pastor Brent McQuay: amazing things so that, that grandmother gets
Pastor Brent McQuay: them to come to her home to
Pastor Brent McQuay: take care of the daughter, the granddaughter
Pastor Brent McQuay: in the process. Witnesses to these two
Pastor Brent McQuay: nurses tells them about Jesus. The two
Pastor Brent McQuay: nurses give their lives to Christ and
Pastor Brent McQuay: are now a part of that underground
Pastor Brent McQuay: church. We had another guy from Elam.
Pastor Brent McQuay: He's a doctor in the region. He
Pastor Brent McQuay: said at one point he walked out
Pastor Brent McQuay: of the. His. He was on call
Pastor Brent McQuay: in the hospital the night of the
Pastor Brent McQuay: first attacks. And he walked out into
Pastor Brent McQuay: the lobby of his hospital, and there
Pastor Brent McQuay: was, I think he said, 400 body
Pastor Brent McQuay: bags filled, like, just in his little
Pastor Brent McQuay: hospital, just that opening night, January 8th.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And he was broken, like, just mourning
Pastor Brent McQuay: this. And so he just prayed and
Pastor Brent McQuay: he said, God, I don't know what
Pastor Brent McQuay: to do. And he said, felt like
Pastor Brent McQuay: the Holy Spirit came upon him and
Pastor Brent McQuay: gave him the strength and the courage
Pastor Brent McQuay: in that moment. And so he just
Pastor Brent McQuay: went and started comforting families. Like, as
Pastor Brent McQuay: a doctor, there wasn't even anything.
Pastor Brent McQuay: He had no patience. It was. They
Pastor Brent McQuay: were all dead, but he just was
Pastor Brent McQuay: helping families identify their loved ones. So
Pastor Brent McQuay: they were coming in to try and
Pastor Brent McQuay: find the body. One of the horrific
Pastor Brent McQuay: things that the government was doing in
Pastor Brent McQuay: that time as well is everybody had
Pastor Brent McQuay: to have, like, a cause of death.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so if they were killed by
Pastor Brent McQuay: military shooting by the government, the family
Pastor Brent McQuay: owed a bullet tax in order to
Pastor Brent McQuay: retrieve the body. So if David Beasley
Pastor Brent McQuay: is shot and killed by the military,
Pastor Brent McQuay: in order for your wife to claim
Pastor Brent McQuay: your body, she would have to pay
Pastor Brent McQuay: them money as a bullet tax. Wow.
Pastor Brent McQuay: For the ammunition that they wasted on
Pastor Brent McQuay: killing you.
David Beasley: That's crazy.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so what. What this doctor started
Pastor Brent McQuay: doing because of that procedure, what the
Pastor Brent McQuay: doctor started doing is he just fast
Pastor Brent McQuay: stamped. He would find somebody that they
Pastor Brent McQuay: would find their loved one, and he
Pastor Brent McQuay: would just stamp that all the procedure
Pastor Brent McQuay: had already taken place. Even though he
Pastor Brent McQuay: was supposed to. His process was supposed
Pastor Brent McQuay: to be identify the body, then take
Pastor Brent McQuay: the body to the morgue where it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: examined, and then it's levied the fine
Pastor Brent McQuay: and everything against them. Instead, he was
Pastor Brent McQuay: just releasing the bodies directly to them,
Pastor Brent McQuay: which is just. Honestly, it's like a
Pastor Brent McQuay: super courageous thing to do.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Because it's. It's illegal for him. He's
Pastor Brent McQuay: risking his life to do that. It
Pastor Brent McQuay: got even crazier. Apparently. He had two
Pastor Brent McQuay: interns, two doctors that were training under
Pastor Brent McQuay: him that were watching him do this,
Pastor Brent McQuay: and they're. They're watching him weep with
Pastor Brent McQuay: families and hug them and pray with
Pastor Brent McQuay: them and stamp these things. And, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: they're watching him do it all. Finally,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, towards the end of the night,
Pastor Brent McQuay: they. They pulled him aside and they're
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, what are you doing? Like, why
Pastor Brent McQuay: are you doing this? And he's like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm doing this because I'm a Christian,
Pastor Brent McQuay: and this is how Jesus loves people.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And this is how I love people.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And they were just so blown away
Pastor Brent McQuay: by it that they gave their lives
Pastor Brent McQuay: to Christ. And now that doctor for
Pastor Brent McQuay: the last month or so has been
Pastor Brent McQuay: doing a Bible study with these two
Pastor Brent McQuay: other doctors during their lunch break.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Wow.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And it's like, like these are the
Pastor Brent McQuay: story. This, like, this is what God
Pastor Brent McQuay: is doing in the middle of this
Pastor Brent McQuay: devastation. I mentioned yesterday how testimony of
Pastor Brent McQuay: testimony was just sharing that. It's like
Pastor Brent McQuay: the, the evil of the world is
Pastor Brent McQuay: being contrasted by the love of Jesus
Pastor Brent McQuay: and it's causing the love of Jesus
Pastor Brent McQuay: to stand out even more in this
Pastor Brent McQuay: season.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Can you talk about the person with
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the Bible? The lady?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, yeah. So Afghan woman ends up
Pastor Brent McQuay: in Iran in a house church. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I don't even remember exactly like how
Pastor Brent McQuay: it took place, but it was one
Pastor Brent McQuay: of those miraculous moments. And I, I'll
Pastor Brent McQuay: share a couple more, but ends up
Pastor Brent McQuay: there. They get her saved, they give
Pastor Brent McQuay: her a Bible. She's about to leave
Pastor Brent McQuay: to go back to her country. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: the guy's like, hey, what are you
Pastor Brent McQuay: going to do with, with the Bible?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, because it's, you know. And she's
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, I'm taking it with me. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, why are you asking such a
Pastor Brent McQuay: dumb question? That's, that's like your response
Pastor Brent McQuay: to like, I go to Oru. But
Pastor Brent McQuay: that was her, that was her with
Pastor Brent McQuay: the Bible. She's like, I'm taking it
Pastor Brent McQuay: with me. He's like, but like, are
Pastor Brent McQuay: you going to get it through the
Pastor Brent McQuay: border? And like, what if they stop
Pastor Brent McQuay: you? Like, you could end up in
Pastor Brent McQuay: prison. You could be executed. Like all
Pastor Brent McQuay: this stuff, you're a woman with a
Pastor Brent McQuay: Bible. Like, that's just, you're dead. Like
Pastor Brent McQuay: Taliban controls Afghanistan. Like, you can't do
Pastor Brent McQuay: that. And she just looked at me,
Pastor Brent McQuay: she said, but the God, it's God's
Pastor Brent McQuay: word. It's life. Like without his word.
Pastor Brent McQuay: What, what is life? So she's basically
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, I would rather be killed with
Pastor Brent McQuay: God's word than live without God's word.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And it was just like, man, the,
Pastor Brent McQuay: the boldness these people have. There was
Pastor Brent McQuay: another story house church leader, he had
Pastor Brent McQuay: given a copy of the New Testament
Pastor Brent McQuay: to a widow that he had just
Pastor Brent McQuay: randomly met, but she lived in a
Pastor Brent McQuay: city like eight hours away from him.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So he had evangelized to her, given
Pastor Brent McQuay: her a Bible and she went off
Pastor Brent McQuay: to her own place when. So there
Pastor Brent McQuay: was a short war between Israel and
Pastor Brent McQuay: Iran a while back. And I think
Pastor Brent McQuay: they call it like a 14 day
Pastor Brent McQuay: war or something. I forget exactly. But
Pastor Brent McQuay: in that moment, like bombs were being
Pastor Brent McQuay: dropped on the city she lives in.
Pastor Brent McQuay: He was in a city that no
Pastor Brent McQuay: attacks were happening at, so he was
Pastor Brent McQuay: safe. Bombs were falling on this city
Pastor Brent McQuay: that this widow was in. He was
Pastor Brent McQuay: praying one day, and he felt like
Pastor Brent McQuay: the Holy Spirit told him that he
Pastor Brent McQuay: needed to go visit that widow. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: he said, God, I. Like, I don't
Pastor Brent McQuay: even know, like, where she lives. I
Pastor Brent McQuay: don't have her phone number.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Eight hours away.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's eight hours away in a war
Pastor Brent McQuay: zone, like, dangerous place. Eight hours away.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I don't have her phone number. All
Pastor Brent McQuay: I know is, like, the apartment she
Pastor Brent McQuay: lives in, like, the apartment complex. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: so he finally, he. He grabbed his
Pastor Brent McQuay: wife, and he's like, hey, I feel
Pastor Brent McQuay: like the Holy Spirit's telling us we
Pastor Brent McQuay: need to go visit this widow and
Pastor Brent McQuay: her son. And so they got in
Pastor Brent McQuay: the car, they drove eight hours. They're
Pastor Brent McQuay: praying the whole way. They get to
Pastor Brent McQuay: the city, and they find the apartment
Pastor Brent McQuay: complex, and they just start knocking on
Pastor Brent McQuay: doors.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Wow.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Hoping to find this random woman. They
Pastor Brent McQuay: knock on a door. I don't know
Pastor Brent McQuay: how many doors they knocked on, but
Pastor Brent McQuay: they eventually knock on this door. Woman
Pastor Brent McQuay: opens the door. It's her. And she
Pastor Brent McQuay: just immediately begins to cry. She's just
Pastor Brent McQuay: weeping. She brings them to the home,
Pastor Brent McQuay: and she says, I was just praying.
Pastor Brent McQuay: She said, I've. I've been so lonely.
Pastor Brent McQuay: There's nobody that cares for me. There's
Pastor Brent McQuay: nobody that's checking in on me. My
Pastor Brent McQuay: husband's dead. I'm trying to raise our
Pastor Brent McQuay: son, but it's. It's like the whole
Pastor Brent McQuay: world has turned their back on me.
Pastor Brent McQuay: She's like, I've been praying that God
Pastor Brent McQuay: would let one of those missiles just
Pastor Brent McQuay: land on our building so that I
Pastor Brent McQuay: would be done. Like, I just. I
Pastor Brent McQuay: don't want to do this anymore. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: she said. I said, amen. And you
Pastor Brent McQuay: knocked on my door.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Wow.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And it's just like, oh, like, these
Pastor Brent McQuay: stories, like, if it doesn't start hitting
Pastor Brent McQuay: your heart, like, yeah, there's something, man.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's. It's just wild. But, yeah. So
Pastor Brent McQuay: just story after story, kind of shared
Pastor Brent McQuay: a little bit with the staff this
Pastor Brent McQuay: morning. There was a girl that, in
Pastor Brent McQuay: the midst of all of this, she
Pastor Brent McQuay: just started writing worship songs. And she's
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, I don't know anything else to
Pastor Brent McQuay: do but worship in this moment. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: we're talking about, man, 40 to 80,000
Pastor Brent McQuay: people that were just killed. And her
Pastor Brent McQuay: response is to worship God and say,
Pastor Brent McQuay: look, I. I don't know that. What
Pastor Brent McQuay: I can do without you.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so I honor you in this
Pastor Brent McQuay: moment. And it's just songs of worship.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That are coming out of Iran right
Pastor Brent McQuay: now. Like, it's just. It's wild.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: God's doing some amazing work.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: It is of tragedy, too.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah. And if. If anybody doesn't know,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, it's official that the largest evangelical
Pastor Brent McQuay: church in the world is the underground
Pastor Brent McQuay: church in Iran. Like, the. The number
Pastor Brent McQuay: of people that are coming to faith
Pastor Brent McQuay: in. In Christ in Iran is greater
Pastor Brent McQuay: than anywhere else in the world. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: just fastest growing. And it's in the
Pastor Brent McQuay: midst of all of that kind of
Pastor Brent McQuay: persecution and stuff. And so, right. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: right now, my friends in the area,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, what they are praying for is
Pastor Brent McQuay: that through this change in regime and
Pastor Brent McQuay: all this, the. There's a prince that's
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, he's part of, like, the royal
Pastor Brent McQuay: line that should be in charge in
Pastor Brent McQuay: Iran. He. He's still alive. He's protected
Pastor Brent McQuay: in another country right now, and he
Pastor Brent McQuay: has. People have said that he might
Pastor Brent McQuay: actually be a Christian. They're not sure.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But there was just a video released
Pastor Brent McQuay: where there's a Christian pastor praying over
Pastor Brent McQuay: him, and he's eyes closed, head bowed,
Pastor Brent McQuay: arms open, like, receiving prayer. Which a
Pastor Brent McQuay: Muslim to receive prayer from a Christian?
Pastor Brent McQuay: That's like, a pretty big. No, no,
Pastor Brent McQuay: just in general. And so, like, the
Pastor Brent McQuay: rumors that he could be a believer
Pastor Brent McQuay: is pretty strong. Strong. But even if
Pastor Brent McQuay: he's not, he's very pro just peace
Pastor Brent McQuay: and in general, and looks out for
Pastor Brent McQuay: minorities and all that. So, like, if.
Pastor Brent McQuay: If he's the guy that they can
Pastor Brent McQuay: end up getting into power to kind
Pastor Brent McQuay: of rebuild, they're. They're anticipating that there
Pastor Brent McQuay: could come a day in the near
Pastor Brent McQuay: future where the Iranian Christian church could
Pastor Brent McQuay: actually worship in public.
David Beasley: Wow.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And they're like, in that moment, the
Pastor Brent McQuay: idea of hundreds of thousands of Iranians
Pastor Brent McQuay: filling stadiums worshiping Jesus.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, they're like, it's one thing to
Pastor Brent McQuay: be able to worship him in private
Pastor Brent McQuay: in our home with five people, as
Pastor Brent McQuay: quietly as we can, but, man, hundreds
Pastor Brent McQuay: of thousands filling arenas worshiping Jesus. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: and part of it is, like, that's
Pastor Brent McQuay: why some of them are writing the
Pastor Brent McQuay: songs now. They're like, we're gonna praise.
Pastor Brent McQuay: We're gonna sing these songs in massive
Pastor Brent McQuay: crowds. So, like, man. And you can.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You can argue the politics of it.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Should Trump have done what he did
Pastor Brent McQuay: or not? But at the end of
Pastor Brent McQuay: the day, like, there was an evil
Pastor Brent McQuay: thing happening in a part of the
Pastor Brent McQuay: world, and it would be like, if.
Pastor Brent McQuay: If you see your neighbor getting mugged
Pastor Brent McQuay: and you just watch it happen and
Pastor Brent McQuay: then walk back in your house, even
Pastor Brent McQuay: though you had the power and the
Pastor Brent McQuay: ability to do something about it like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: man, I don't know that I could
Pastor Brent McQuay: do that, just turn my back to.
Pastor Brent McQuay: To that kind of devastation. And so,
Pastor Brent McQuay: yeah, I don't know, man. God's amazing
Pastor Brent McQuay: all over the world, and he's doing
Pastor Brent McQuay: pretty impressive things even in the midst
Pastor Brent McQuay: of tragedies.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right?
David Beasley: That reminds us of what. That reminds
David Beasley: me of the fact that we don't
David Beasley: go through much like we think we
David Beasley: do in the States.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I mean, no, the Western world has
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: no.
David Beasley: I have no clue, for the most
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: part,
David Beasley: just being able to, like, to endure
David Beasley: such hardship. Like, even what we're talking
David Beasley: about in connection to Luke, chapter three,
David Beasley: these are individuals who are bearing fruit
David Beasley: with repentance. They are not. They are
David Beasley: not trying to be saved by association.
David Beasley: Like, they are understanding the judgment that
David Beasley: can come both naturally, but they rather
David Beasley: endure the natural judgment and avoid the
David Beasley: spiritual. Yeah, yeah. Comfort. They can care
David Beasley: less. Right? So that's something that's very
David Beasley: encouraging. We can definitely learn from their
David Beasley: example
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: and being in the west, you know,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: being comfortable. This is why we have
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to do what we have to do
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to support evangelism, to support global missions,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: because it's an opportunity for us now.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: We can't look at it as if,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: like, okay, well, we're not going what
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: they're going through. We're in a comfortable
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: space. It's like, no, we have a
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: job to do, and our job is
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to help global missions, you know, spread.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And. And we have to do everything
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that we can to. To share the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: gospel of Jesus Christ.
David Beasley: Amen. That's all I got, gentlemen. Yeah,
David Beasley: this is fun.
Pastor Brent McQuay: What a fun way to end the
Pastor Brent McQuay: podcast.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: No, but it's real. It's real life,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: man. If we can't talk about real
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: life, then we shouldn't be doing this
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: at all.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Well, and. And I just. Man, it
Pastor Brent McQuay: was. It was absolutely wild. Just be
Pastor Brent McQuay: in a room full of. Of people
Pastor Brent McQuay: that care about Iran, that are Christians,
Pastor Brent McQuay: and, like, a huge percentage of the
Pastor Brent McQuay: team for Elam is Iranian. And so,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, this is one of the statements
Pastor Brent McQuay: they made is everybody knows somebody. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: when. When there was that 40 to
Pastor Brent McQuay: 80,000 people that were killed. Like, every
Pastor Brent McQuay: single person on their team, every leader,
Pastor Brent McQuay: they're connected. The two. Every single one
Pastor Brent McQuay: of them had somebody that was killed.
David Beasley: Wow.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so, like, that. That devastation was
Pastor Brent McQuay: just. It was wild. And being in
Pastor Brent McQuay: a room, hearing these stories, some of
Pastor Brent McQuay: them firsthand. It was. Man, it was
Pastor Brent McQuay: just. It was the timing of that.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, I can't imagine being anywhere else.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, the. The day that us decides
Pastor Brent McQuay: they're gonna drop bombs on. On Somebody
Pastor Brent McQuay: to be in a room full of
Pastor Brent McQuay: the people that, that affects directly.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, it was just, it was a
Pastor Brent McQuay: perspective that I probably wouldn't have gotten
Pastor Brent McQuay: if I wasn't in the room with
Pastor Brent McQuay: them.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And some of, some of my friends
Pastor Brent McQuay: from the region, they call him Uncle
Pastor Brent McQuay: Trump and they're like, he's the greatest
Pastor Brent McQuay: thing that ever happened to our country,
Pastor Brent McQuay: Uncle Trump. And I'm like, uncle Trump.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And they're just, they're like, man, one
Pastor Brent McQuay: of, one of my friends, he's got,
Pastor Brent McQuay: man, it's like every five seconds he's
Pastor Brent McQuay: posting something on Instagram. His, his Instagram
Pastor Brent McQuay: story. It's like when you like the,
Pastor Brent McQuay: the dot dots for like the Instagram
Pastor Brent McQuay: stories, like they're no longer like distinguishable,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like a straight line. It's just a
Pastor Brent McQuay: solid line of just all of these
Pastor Brent McQuay: like non stop dots. But it's like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's just all rejoicing and celebrating and
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's, it does create that weird space
Pastor Brent McQuay: where it's like, okay, do you rejoice
Pastor Brent McQuay: when somebody dies? Usually?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: No.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And I, and I think that where,
Pastor Brent McQuay: where the people are, it's, it's, it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: probably that's the struggle that they have.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's like they don't want to rejoice
Pastor Brent McQuay: in somebody's death, but they are rejoicing
Pastor Brent McQuay: in the freedom that they may be
Pastor Brent McQuay: able to experience.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: The liberation that they have is.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: It brings joy to them.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah. And it's hard for me to
Pastor Brent McQuay: celebrate anybody's death because, like, I believe
Pastor Brent McQuay: that salvation could be had for anybody.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, there's always a chance as long
Pastor Brent McQuay: as you're alive. And once you're dead,
Pastor Brent McQuay: the chance is gone.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So, yeah, so I'm, I'm pro people
Pastor Brent McQuay: staying alive, but I do also recognize
Pastor Brent McQuay: that there's some people that have given
Pastor Brent McQuay: up that.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah. Maybe the best way to put
Pastor Brent McQuay: that. Wow, fun times. Yeah.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Now transition.
Pastor Brent McQuay: How do you close out?
David Beasley: How do we transition?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Listen, let's see you earn the big
Pastor Brent McQuay: bucks.
David Beasley: God is in control. God is sovereign.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That's good.
David Beasley: One thing we learn about the from
David Beasley: Luke chapter three, including, and also from
David Beasley: what's happened in our current world we
David Beasley: live in. God is a control and
David Beasley: we trust Him. And our job is
David Beasley: to honestly follow his lead. Take heed
David Beasley: to the responsibility we have of living
David Beasley: a life of repentance, bearing fruits, making
David Beasley: sure that we're not trying to associate
David Beasley: ourselves with Jesus for convenience and for
David Beasley: anything outside of genuine real faith in
David Beasley: Him. Trust him in the seasons of
David Beasley: wilderness where we just don't know what's
David Beasley: going on. Do the hard work in
David Beasley: that season. Don't just look at it
David Beasley: as a place where you're just complacent,
David Beasley: but do what's needed when you know,
David Beasley: especially you have a calling. Work it.
David Beasley: Grow mature. Be prepared for when God
David Beasley: actually launches you. And also for those
David Beasley: of us who feel like, man, this
David Beasley: is a lot, recognize the fact that
David Beasley: God loves us. There's nothing that can
David Beasley: separate us from that love. Paul lists
David Beasley: a gang of things, naturally and spiritually,
David Beasley: that cannot separate us from the love
David Beasley: of God that's in Christ Jesus and
David Beasley: seek to please him so that he
David Beasley: can look at us and say, I'm
David Beasley: well pleased with you. Amen. This is
David Beasley: good. Amen. So till next time. Welcome
David Beasley: to Between Sermons. We had a good
David Beasley: time and we will see you next
David Beasley: week for another episode. God bless.